Left Context;KWIC;Right Context
ys is difficult find out appropriate;word;for advertising text it 's very simp
ken central areas London  ( eh ) the;word;Cockney can translated cock 's eggs 
e who lived villages London use that;word;call  ( em ) the city workers who di
glish you can sometimes barely catch;word; ( em ) also turned out that British
ating world and this how point would;word;mean=meaning world sorrow the Edo ar
ood the world floating pleasures the;word;means picture therefore  ( em ) the 
 with avoid Dostoevsky 's times this;word;meant the unity beauty kindness and 
that the thing just thought that the;word;resonation  ( eh ) would quite clear
 not appropriate use this exa exact;word;for kids who are watching this  ( er
lating syntax but you went literally;word;word reproducing the grammatical for
g syntax but you went literally word;word;reproducing the grammatical forms  (
ties and question  . . when hear the;word;difficulty understand that you mean 
n  ( em ) from for the Greek  ( er );word;Jesus Christ his name Greek based my
 are made believe every single world;word;and this means that need know what t
u explain  ( uh ) what does mean the;word;abroad what regions what countries w
 ( em )  are you familiar with the;word;propaganda  how can understand wel
is expressed verbal repeated use the;word;new now speaking about the cosmetic 
y it 's quite difficult story single;word;Interslavic can have multiple transl
made from then for standard from one;word;moved to attempting  . . .  ( eh ) e
calculates what the most appropriate;word;use article Interslavic languages wh
 certain form you can fill which the;word;you are proposing fits all the crite
rification skills  . . .  ( er ) the;word;fake borrowed into Russian from Engl
r Berl gives example remembering the;word;here you can see different modes . a
 finds and trying find out about the;word;because it  ( mhm )  ( er ) what wha
ain idea Sebstian Fox tell about the;word;itself and therefore thinking broodi
ife his past experience it think the;word;lost would would say most do you kno
ve two questions first you write the;word;business what does mean business the
ss the socialist society because the;word;business the word world here meant s
ociety because the word business the;word;world here meant some activity the h
 they catering and when the hear the;word;sustainability tend think about the 
 ) novel film oh come picture and;word;very different yes well okay this
orrowing borrowing loanword borrowed;word;word taken over from another languag
ing borrowing loanword borrowed word;word;taken over from another language and
en from the book  ( uh ) the English;word;Arnold  ( uh ) who and this book was
you can see the meaning the original;word;and hydro names for body water with 
in goal however , text Dostoyevsky`s;word;fully conveyed and  . . . translatio
lated translator with callous change;word;order the leading principle paragrap
( er ) parts the text and change the;word;order and change the meaning the tex
.items and course sorry I forgot the;word; . . .  ( mmm )  . . . some persons 
sis and questionnaires what does the;word;gadget mean gadget portable electron
 ( um ) level unit which deeper than;word;its sense  ( uh ) it applies only so
her differences translation the same;word;can seen the example  ( uh ) Greek  
um ) meaning desert three times this;word;appeared the analyzed chapters and t
e last version the program Microsoft;word;main tab contains lot useful options
nion  ( hmm ) for example Microsoft;Word; ( heh ) also offe=no product  ( um
ne game  ( er ) but don 't just take;word;that  ( er ) this industry booming r
ll manage  . . .  ( er ) don 't take;word; ( er ) take  ( er ) look the number
hnical texts . abbreviation compound;word;well literal reducing two more words
alled abbreviating it 's special way;word;formation aimed sharpening  ( eh )  
 ) the final writing  ( eh ) Russian;word;and of course translation method thi
is all stuff product goods that were;word;mouth couple months ago  ( er ) now 
ay . everything . everything . every;word;that I 'm going say for you . . you 
