It is widespread the opinion about the weakness of political opposition in Russia and in Perm in particular. Along with this, there are various non-governmental organizations in Perm which are actively expressed their views against the government. These practices are realized by the civil activists who are not politicians, however they act in the political sphere, and it is the reaction to the actions of the government, so can be considered as political. From this point of view, it can be concluded that civil activists take on the role of the political opposition, while remaining outside the power structure. How strong this opposition, and whether it can even be called “political opposition”, remains a question. But, it is obvious that the city has some resistance to the decisions of the authorities, namely the governor of the Perm region V. F. Basargin. The idea of the Governor and the reaction of activists fall into the public sphere and become media interest. In what way the systemic opposition behaves itself, and how the opposition in the form civil society activists realizes itself will be studied in this paper.

The goal of this study - to determine the phenomenon of the Perm political opposition in the context of realizing  social practices in the political space. On the basis, it is necessary to solve following objectives:
1) To consider the possibility of applying the theory of practice in relation to the phenomenon of the Perm political opposition.
The first task will include some sub-tasks:
1.1 to define the concepts used: political protest, political opposition
1.2 to justify the use of the theory of practice in the interpretation of Bourdieu and de Certeau
2) To analyze the practices of the local system and non-system opposition during the rule of V. F. Basargin as a governor.
The second objective will also be divided into sub-tasks:
2.1 to analyze the practices of representatives of the opposition parties, which are a reaction to the policy of Basargin.
2.2 to analyze the practices of representatives of non-system opposition, which is a reaction to policies Basargin.
       
In this paper will be considered the practices of representatives of opposition political parties and the practice of non-system opposition, represented by the public, civil organizations and activists. This work is limited by the reaction of the opposition only on the actions and ideas of governor V. F. Basargin. The time period is also limited   - is the period from May 2012 when Basargin became a governor  to the current time, so until December 2015. As the examples of the  opposition activity will be taken particular conflicts with the authorities, such as the transfer of Perm zoo, construction of a new airport, a cultural project, the abolition of direct elections of governors. It will be found  the general and the particular between actions of the system and non-system opposition, the reasons for which these types of opposition do not work together, despite the general dissatisfaction with the Basargin policy. It will be also considered the methods of  government's actions in response to the protests of the opposition. The analysis will be conducted on the basis of articles in the media. It will be revealed which events are given more attention, which less, what is the reason for the revival of the particular problem in the media and what promotes the gradual extinction.

In this study, it will be used the term “political opposition”. “In politics, the opposition comprises one or more political parties or other organized groups that are opposed to the government (or, in American English, the administration), party or group in political control of a city, region, state or country. It is the party that goes against another party. The degree of opposition varies according to political conditions - for example, across authoritarian and liberalsystems where opposition may be repressed or welcomed” [Blondel, 1997, p. 462–486]. Also it is necessary to define what the “political protest” is. “A protest (also called a remonstrance, remonstration or demonstration) is an expression of bearing witness on behalf of an express cause by words or actions with regard to particular events, policies or situations. Protests can take many different forms, from individual statements to mass demonstrations” [Roberts, 2009, p.2-3]. 

As the literature in this work will be the number of articles devoted to the opposition in general, the opposition in Russia, and the opposition in Perm. For a long time scale numerous attempts have been made to formulate the concept of the political opposition. Due to the articles used as the literature  in this work it will be noted what stands out as the characteristic features of the Russian opposition, and eventually it will be possible to define the essence of the Perm political opposition. As an example, the article of O. Dyakov "The Features of the Interaction Between the Government and the Opposition in Russia: the Ideological Dimension." The article discusses Russian opposition after the events of December 2011, when there were massive protests - people were disagree with the election results. The author mentions that all protests in Russia go through the same steps: the sharp appearance of dissatisfaction, instant power connection (local or regional), a compromise solution to the problem and whittling the activity of the opposition. All of this leads to the fact that there is no sustainable practices of the opposition, it has spontaneous character [Dyakov]. The article presents a point of view that the opposition should have their well-articulated ideology. As well as a low level of justice in the Russian sense, there cannot be the opposition with its own  ideology. Also, the current government have not their uniform ideology, or it is very weak, which does not allow the opposition to articulate their grievances. As for Perm opposition, it can be given the example of an article devoted to the review of the social-political situation in Perm from the 90s to the present. The author mentions, that in the 90’s the Perm region evolved rapidly, in contrast to many Russian cities at the time, after growth rates began to fall sharply. During the reign of Chirkunov it was not very well implemented "cultural project", and during the reign of Basargin was not implemented any essential project. The article describes the influence groups in Perm, who are the main supporters of the governor Basargin and who are the main opposition force, also lists the main protests. This article gives the common situation in the following  words: "If Chirkunov was an example of how the governor should not be, then Basargin was an example of the fact that the governor cannot be at all" [Perm. The opposition ...].
       
First of all it should be noted that the behavior of politicians and civil society activists should not be regarded as a matter of course. All the actions of the participants, whatever they obvious or objectionable, formed under the influence of the entire surrounding situation: the history of the issue, the coming to power of this particular governor and the interest of these particular activists, the city's population and its values, and many other factors that affect the participaters to the conflict, even if they do not know it.

Pierre Bourdieu explains that through such a thing as a "habitus". "Habitus -  is a system of dispositions, which generates and structures the practice of the agent and his or her veiws. It allows the agent to orient spontaneously in social space and react more or less adequately to the events and situations ... The formation of such life experiences often remaining unconscious, leads to the formation of readiness and inclination of agent  to react, speak, feel, and think in a certain way. " Bourdieu says that habitus contributes to the design of a specific human behavior, and at the same time, the actions of a person perceives through his habitus. Bourdieu also mentions that "the agents and agent groups ... are determined by their positions in this space in the relevance to each other. Each participant has a certain place in a certain area of the space). "

Bourdieu distinguishes two kinds of reality: the first is the one in which groups of people are given specific names, and based on generally established norms. Second, the "subjective" reality explains people's ideas about society, from  certain judgments. "The subjective point of view of society as a" second-order reality, "suggests that the social world is" the implementation of the social activity of the authorized agents who continuously construct the social world through the practical organization of everyday life. " Pierre Bourdieu also distinguishes such a thing as the "field" as a system, which can detect a collision of discourses. Field exists only if the players positions are clearly defined. Through this conceptual apparatus can  be analyzed the actions of the opposition and reveal the essence of the political opposition in Perm, whoever she was not represented - political parties or civil society activists. Considering that all participants of conflict situations act on the basis of their "habituses" it can be explained what exactly caused such political opposition.

Based on the purpose of this paper, it is assumed that it will be possible to determine whether the political opposition exists in Perm. the main question will include several sub-questions - which practices can be seen of opposition political parties and civil society activists. Results that are expected  , should show that there is  the political oppositionthe in the city Perm, but it is presented not by political parties, but by public organizations that play a political role because of the weakness of the system opposition. Also expected results showing that the opposition in the face of civil society activists is able to influence the government and actually protect the interests of the population. Moreover it is assumed that the success of activists in the issues can be explained by the fact that the activists no purpose to advance in power, on the basis of which the current government does not use harsh action to such opposition, because they do not see the threat of displacement. However, it is obvious that the massive support of the non-system opposition contributes to the demolition of the authority of local authorities.