At present there is the increasing continuous concern for gender studies. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of gender equality signify the expanded role of women in all spheres of society. Scholars register the growth women’s activity - they are the direct subject of politics and exercise political power. Last year’s loud presidential campaign in two world leading countries confirms this: in the US presidential election in 2008, one of the favorites of the campaign was Hillary Clinton, and Russia's first female president could be Irina Khakamada in 2004. A wide range of contemporary studies  in the pre-election discourse and works written on the theme revealed that women candidates, in contrast to male candidates, have special manipulative effects, and gender difference is widely used in the rhetoric during the election campaign. 
     
In addition, on the eve of the major presidential campaigns (USA in 2016 and Russia in 2018), it seems necessary to examine the complex gender manipulation, which serve as means of political propaganda in the electoral discourse, since it is possible that some of the candidates for the post of the leaders in these countries will be women.

The major issue of this research is how gender positioning becomes vital part of the evaluation of a woman politician. Thus, the main purpose of this research is to identify particular qualities gender manipulations which are used during the election campaign and also their effect on recipients. 
     
It is essential to achieve the following objectives in order to answer the purpose:
1.conceptualize speech manipulation in the American pre-electoral discourse;
2.determine the role of gender in the process of positioning the voters prejudice to the individual candidate on the example of the American pre-electoral discourse;
3.identify the effect of gender and potential manipulative positioning.

Numerous black spots in the field of gender manipulation are no being found in publications. Theorists hold quite various doctrines about gender manipulations but without the political context. Further, describes the procedure which is peculiar to this innovative approach.

The research discusses the features of the American pre-electoral discourse, as it advanced in its empire to democratic principles, the experience of which may be broadcast to other countries, in particular Russia.  Presidential election of 2008 in the United States showed that gender difference is widely used in manipulative rhetoric during the election campaign. 

There are many definitions of «discourse». For our research only one is significant – the interpretation of contemporary Dutch scientist T. van Dijk, who defined this category as "mutually directed activities of participants in the dialogue, the exchange of information and the use of communication strategies" (van Dijk, 2006, pp. 72-73). 
     
According to Swiss linguist L. de Saussure, a verbal manipulation in the present work, we understand as the form of implicit communicative impact that the manipulator commits in his or her own interests, seeking to invest in a new object of knowledge, opinions and attitudes, using different strategies (Saussure, 2005).
     
The research T. van Dyck "Discourse and manipulation" manipulation of verbal seems kind of abuse of power, leaving the actors unable to fight in the role of victims (Dijk, 2006).
     
Currently, in light of a huge amount of research on the past campaign materials, the modern American researchers West, Nilan (2009) conclude that gender positioning is a process of categorization, whereby the positioning of the male politicians or policy-woman is assessed in terms of its compliance with generally accepted gender norms of this category.These fundamental concepts became the basis for project.

Numerous attempts have been made to explain the connection between the theory and the real influence of gender on the behavior and views of people. In the 90 years of the twentieth century sociologists K. West, D. Zimmerman and C. Fenstermaker are developed a theory of doing gender. The essence is that gender considered as situational and admissible conditioned to gender actions. According to this theory, gender is seen as an effect caused by the situation: actor corrects the behavior in accordance with the regulatory idea of the possibilities for its gender attitudes and activities (West, Zimmerman, Fenstermaker, 2008). In the case of this research construction of gender theory provides an understanding of what a man or woman are evaluated according to the accepted standards for this category. Contemporary trend potentially influence on formation of norms that men and women are forced to comply.  It is difficult to overestimate approach the creators of this theory because it is allowed to expand and deepen gender studies. 
     
Researches the problem area followers of scientists concluded that the doing gender is a process of categorization, in which the behavior of a man or woman can be evaluated in terms of its compliance with generally accepted for a given category of gender norms. To decrease the discrepancy between theory and practice of has been done a great job. Followers proved that the more naturally and discreetly implemented categorization than the stronger its impact on manipulation of consciousness (.Baker, Nilan, 2000. P. 99-111).
     
The analysis of materials of the Russian and the American pre-election discourse found that the doing gender actively used for the purpose of agitation or discredit a candidate for elective post. Over the past decade, we can notice that politicians certainly are positioned in terms of attributing gender policy. To have quality gender occurs the so called categorization that interferes with accept him as a politician. In this case there is a violation the postulate of relevance by Grice, which is the basis of effective communication (Grice, 1985. P. 217-237). However, the problem requires further consideration. Deviation postulates of communication typical of the manipulative discourse. In this regard, gender positioning can be considered as an element of the manipulative strategies of the speaker, is to latent influence on voters.
     
Within the framework suggested conducted research on the role of gender positioning in shaping voters certain (negative) attitude to the politics. As a methodological basis of this research we will use the theory of the construction of gender. It is also essential to use case study method which includes axiological interpretation of  L. Strauss in "Introduction to Political Philosophy" claimed that axiological method allows to assess political reality from the position of corresponding representation of an ideal society and welfare, as well as to understand the political action from the point of view of justice (Strauss, 1957). This method allows us to relate the "theoretical and real" to evaluate the system and the nature of the values in the pre-election discourse that will help determine whether there is manipulation or not.  In the next part the methods of described in further detail

This part of the proposal explain the methods used in carrying out the study. The methodology will take a definite shape as the study is progressing.As it has been mentioned earlier, the main purpose of this research is to identify specifically gender manipulation which is used during the election campaign, and also their effect on recipients. There are different methods for text analyzing. We use the axiological method, by analyzing the structure and specificity values in policy statements of female candidate and expert commentary to them.
     
The most important step of research is to conduct qualitative content analysis (Lubimova, 2004). Qualitative content analysis is to explore the contents of the texts and researching these contents. In contrast to quantitative content analysis, we are not interested in the number of use of a concept, and the context in which it is used. This method we used in the interpretation of G. Lasuell, who defined it as a method to understand what, how, and with what effect information conveys (Lasuell, 2004). This method is interpreted in the book "Psychopathology and Politics." Because we are interested in verbal aspect of manipulation, we will analyze the texts of analytical articles of major US publications, reports on the campaign trail, the texts of popular programs, on the Internet texts and other materials directly related to the US presidential campaign in 2008, and thus to answer the question, in what context and for what purpose there is a reference to this or that position. For example, choosing the unit of analysis of the concept of "femininity", we will identify the attitude to it of the author of the ideas expressed in the source and the purpose of his message. 
     
As a result, we expect to get an answer to the following question: whether there is a use of gender manipulation in the election discourse and what is its impact on recipients. The final part of the project proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the method mentioned.
     
The most likely outcome will be the identification of gender-based positioning and communication, followed by the imposition of value judgments as to the identity of the candidate in terms of gender. In this case, the role of gender positioning carries informative function in the process of voters' bias against the person of the candidate, that when making its judgments based on common cultural idea of what should be a woman politician - it must comply with its gender category. Despite the fact that gender-based positioning conceals great danger to woman-politician, it also keeps a lot of potential use for the development and promotion of the campaign. 
     
The new system will be proposed to carry out a qualitative analysis of the political situation on gender ahead of the election. This analysis will help the candidate to establish whether all the stereotypes are alive and then to use them, increasing and strengthening its position in the political arena. Accordingly, the second result of this research will be to develop plan for improving election analysts and policy options for the campaign. A new quality evaluation model will be proposed. It will allow providing more comprehensive and accurate estimate of quality in the election. The results will be carefully checked.

It follows examples adduced that serious attention should be paid to the quantity and quality of the processed information. The baseline results of the present research are massive and very important not to lose the thread of the study.
     
During the research we plan to reveal that gender positioning is able to set a specific criterion of significance of gender ideology. This criterion is represents a huge potential for the election campaign, but generally not the way to an objective assessment of the political activity of the presidential candidate. 
     
Analysis of pre-election situation on gender will identify areas that could be improved. Thus, in the end we find out how the result of gender positioning means is implemented manipulative strategy. We also plan to show that the aim of this strategy is the formation of a voter’s "right" and managed opinions about the candidate that can play a decisive role in the voting.
     
It is also important to say that during the study we found that the problems can most effectively be handled by treating no more than one system (country) at a time.In the final result of research the experience of the western pre-election discourse will be broadcasted on the Russian political scene.