Religion, existing in the world of politics, in time became a political force itself. On the one hand, active intrusion of religion in the political process entails politicization of religion and, on the other hand, forms in it religious space.
  
In Russia, at the end of XX ñ beginning of XXI centuries, religious renaissance was observed, and religious space was also developing as a form of social-political life of society. In this space different confessions have strove to make an impact on the political process. In turn, growing influence of religion in the post-Soviet Russia on public consciousness is of interest from the point of view of politicians of both federal and regional levels. Russian mass-media more frequently broadcast meetings of the first persons of the state and religious figures, religious services visited by politicians, etc. At the regional level religion is used by politicians as one of the ways to attract voters in the election campaign or even before, for example, some people intend to be elected to organize trips to monasteries before elections in order to get support from believers.  
  
Hence, scientific research of interaction of religion and political processes in modern Russia has especial importance for understanding of existing political practices. Therefore, there is an important task related to necessity to interpret the role of religion in the world of politics.

The purpose of the research is to analyze politiciansí strategies of using of religious discourse in 1991-2011. It is essential to achieve the following objectives in order to achieve the purpose:
1. to define the most common politiciansí strategies of using religion discourse in Perm region from 1991 to 2011. 
2. to define the role of religion attributed to its by politicians. 
3. to determine the main direction of religious discourse development in political space in Perm region from 1991 to 2011.
  
The hypothesis of the research is that religion gradually becomes for politicians an instrument which they use in public sphere in self-interests.

The research is focused on intersection of religion and politics in political communication in Perm region in the period from 1991 to 2011. The term ìpolitical communicationî is used to cover such political texts as agitation materials, on the one hand, leaflets, posters, booklets, newsletters, prepared articles in local newspapers, calendars, greeting cards, and letters to voters from candidates (parties) or its supporters, etc., and politiciansí interviews, articles, etc. published in the local media (mainly in newspapers). 
  
Moreover, religion discourse in the research is analyzed solely from that point of view of the functions it exercises with regard to politicians.

The research offers to regard the problem of intersection of religion and politics at a different angle ñ from the point of view of immediate participants of politics and to reveal ìthe practical usefulnessî of using religion in politics.

In order to avoid potential misunderstanding it is worth to give definitions of some terms used in the research. Thus, religion discourse (in this paper) means all overt and latent allusion in a text to religion. The term ìpolitical communityî implies immediate participants of politics ñ politicians. Political space means sphere of political communication.

Much energy and time has been devoted to research and hopefully to understand the varying effects that religion has on politics. In this part of the paper I will give credit to previous researchers whose work are helpful to reach my hypotheses. 
  
One such work is ìThe Politics of Religion in Postcommunist Russiaî written by Stephen White and Ian McAllister. Researchers focus on the role of religion in Russian politics in the late 1990s.
  
Authors provide a quite interesting statistical data concerning believers and their political preferences. According to findings of the research, levels of attendance are low, in spite of the fact that relatively large and increasing numbers of Russians are willing to identify themselves in terms of denomination. Then, on the one hand, Russian believers are more likely than other groups of population to broadly support authoritarian forms of government, among them a religious monopoly and a larger Slavic state; but on the other hand, ìthey are no more likely to take part in political lifeî (S. White and I. McAllister). However, S. White and I. McAllister note relatively modest associations between support for parties and candidates and religious belief. In contrast to other competitive polities, where religious cleavages are mobilised by parties competing for the support of believers, in post-Soviet Russia voters are some hostile towards parties of this kind, and therefore ìthere was none that sought to gather the support of Orthodox believers on a confessional basisî in the 1990s (S. White and I. McAllister). Accordingly, religion plays a very limited role in structuring Russian politics in the late 1990s, draw the conclusion researchers. 
  
It is most likely that S. White and I. McAllister in general made the right conclusion, but, obviously, the analysis provided by researcher seems to be one-sided, because it is based only on characteristics of Russian believers and avoids investigating relations between confessions and the state or the role of religion as social institute in political process in 1990s. Another shortcoming of the work is that it can be applicable to explanations of events and situations only in the late 1990s. 
  
Another notable work is ìReligion and Ideology in Modern Russiaî by Liudmila Zhukova, in which author focuses on a prominent role of The Russian Orthodox Church in modern Russian society, to some extent solves that problem.
   
As L. Zhukova states, in the end of XX century, due to the process of liberalization that is called ìperestroikaî, religion in Russia was brought back ìinto the public sphere for the first time since the October Revolution of 1917î, got an opportunity to play a significant role in the field of ideologyî, and thus became an integral argument in political debates, ìused to support views of all kinds, ranging from liberal to nationalistî( L. Zhukova).
  
As notices L. Zhukova, the Russian Orthodox Church is most influential in Russia, and its impact on various spheres of social life is becoming more and more remarkable (for example, when Orthodox clergy resist to the gay parade in Moscow or protests against TV programs that contain ìimmoralî (from their point of view) material. As the Russian Orthodox Church authorities assert, the Church upholds the separation of church and state and the secular state, but in fact the Russian Orthodox Church ìhas an exclusive relationship with the state: it enters into joint operation agreements with various ministriesî (L. Zhukova), for example, the Ministry of Social Security and Labor, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Defense. 
  
In order to better understand intersection between religion and politics in Russia, researcher highlights a very important idea widespread in conservative ecclesiastical and political ranks ñ ìsymphonyî between church and state. The idea is normally renounced in official declarations and put into practice time and again. The Russiaís leaders attempt to fill the ideological vacuum that appeared as a result of the collapse of the Soviet state ideology and are about to delegate the task to the Russian Orthodox Church, L. Zhukova supposes. 
  
Additionally, Elina Kahlaís work, ìCivil Religion in Russia. A Choice for Russian Modernisation?î, proved highly beneficial to the research process. Kahlaís text concentrates mainly on various ìaspects of the cultural traditions and practices of Russian Orthodox believers and bearers of that churchís legacyî (E. Kahla) in contemporary Russia, and especially in the gray area between the religious and secular spheres of life.
  
Most importantly, author stresses that a more closer analysis of symphony between the Church and the state and the related practices is needed for a better understanding of religionís role in contemporary Russia. Pointedly, author notes that in todayís Russia the division between secular and religious power remains unresolved because of the adaptation of the Byzantine ideal of symphonic power, so called ìpolitical Orthodoxyî.
  
According to E. Kahla, the fact that in Russian political tradition symphony between sacred and secular authority is emphasized, and that the Russian Orthodox Church as the religion of the ethnic majority has dominated other confessions is vital point for Russia. As a result of that, political and cultural Orthodoxy formed the modus vivendi that in the public sphere of practices, legislation, and symbols, ìruled not just over its own adherents but over non-Orthodox, non-Russians, and non-believers as wellî (E. Kahla). By inertia, the Kremlin and the Russian Orthodox Church today aspire to renew the prerevolutionary tradition of symphony.
  
Without a doubt these works are invaluable to the gathering of background information for my own proposal, however these works have some limitations. The most prominent limitation is in the scope of empirical findings. These works seemed only to focus on characteristics of Orthodox believers or make emphasis on more theoretical things. Entirely ignored were situations from substantially different regions of Russia such as those from North Caucasus, Ural or Siberia. Given the current general situation it seems that an understanding of the religious tendencies of these regions and their subsequent affiliation with a particular political actors would be more than a little bit beneficial to political sciences. 

It appears that the system approach is one of the most productive and appropriate approaches for achieving the emphasized tasks in the given research. The founder of this approach in political science is the American political scientist D. Easton, who introduces the concept of the political system. He regards the political system as a ìblack boxî and elaborates concepts of input (demands and support) and output (actions and decisions). Thus, the political system can be regarded as a ìmechanism of forming and functioning of power in society regarding distribution of resources and valuesî (ÃÛı‡Â‚, 2007, c. 166). In the context of the given paper the concept of the political system as a ìblack boxî seems to be especially useful from the point of view of explanation the using religion in politics. 
  
Within the limits of the given paper the conception of the political market also appears quite appropriate. The theory of political markets is focused on the market nature of interacting between political subjects. In the situation of elections it is, on the one hand, candidates (parties) who carry out supply and, on the other hand, voters who show demand for a political product (ideology, idea, image, initiatives, programs, etc.). Between them exchange of the market type take place: voters as subjects of demand give (ìpayî) their votes to candidates as subjects of supply to get the wanted political product (¿ÙÓÌˆÂ‚). Correspondingly, candidates (parties) one way or another should be oriented on demand, i.e. preferences of voters.
  
One of the most effective tools in investigating of texts used in agitation is the content analysis. The content analysis can be regarded as a replicable, systematic technique for compressing many words of the text into fewer content categories based on explicit rules of coding (Stemler, 2001). Holsti (1969) defines the content analysis as ìany technique for making inferences by objectively and systematically identifying specified characteristics of messagesî. 
  
In general, the content analysis is a useful technique to discover and describe the focus of individual, group, institutional, or social attention (Weber, 1990) and also to examine trends and patterns in documents and to monitor shifts in the public opinion. 

As it was mentioned earlier the main question of the paper deals with politiciansí strategies of using of religious discourse in 1991-2011 in the Perm region. Overall, it is worth noting that, in spite of the theories of religion extinction, religion continues to play an important role in modern society. One way or another, religion discourse occupies more and more space in the public sphere. Clergy often express their opinion in respect with various issues of public life. In turn, authorities often appeal to representatives of the clergy and thus they demonstrate mutual support. It is most likely that religion discourse plays a role also in elections. In particular, it is used to attract voices of believers, which is one of the most common strategies in the last time.
  
In this paper the following outcomes will be got: definition of the most common politiciansí strategies of using religion discourse in the Perm region from 1991 to 2011, determination of the role of religion attributed to it by politicians, analysis of the main direction of religious discourse development in the political space in Perm region from 1991 to 2011.

Generally, according to my expectations, the following outcomes will be got. Religion actually plays a significant role in the political process. Particularly, religion discourse takes more and more place in agitational texts during the period from 1991 to 2011. 
  
The most common strategies in this context are to use religion as an instrument for attracting voters and to speak about religion well, or ignore religion, but in no circumstances to speak about religion in negative way. 
  
According to these two strategies, politicians attribute to religion the role in society. In the first case, religion plays an important role and is necessary for people, in the second one religion is not so important and is of little value to note it.
  
Concerning the main direction of religious discourse development it should be noted that religion takes more and more place in the political rhetoric in Perm region from 1991 to 2011 and practically always is mentioned in the positive way.
  
To conclude, the project is an attempt to further our understanding of the role of religion in the political space in Perm region.