This study is important in that it carried out an analysis of  political culture of Germany between the First and Second World Wars, it will the academy us to understand contemporary political processes and mechanisms of interaction between political forces in Germany and throughout Europe. As we know, the coming to power of the Nazis in Germany in the 30s of the twentieth century, unleashed the Second World War and its results  determined the political map and political life of contemporary Europe.
     
Twenty years ago  Europe began the movement to unite. It counters the aim of the EU has become a political and economic integration, "transparency" of borders between countries, common views and peace. The processes of multiculturalism and tolerance have led to an increase in internal and external migration in Europe, and then to the emergence of nationalist sentiment.
Problem Statement. The purpose of research is to identify   ideological components of  political culture of Germany for the period from 1918 to 1939 and to determine their functional hierarchy within the borders of this culture.
     
The objectives of the study are the following:
- To identify key factors in the formation and development of  specific political culture of Germany in the period between 1918 and 1939;
- To identify  political and cultural factors that contributed to the collapse of the Weimar Republic and introduction of a turnover in mythic and religious images;
- To determine  frequency of use and  popularity of  images in  doctrinal nature of the dictatorship;

In his study, I consider the issues associated with neo-Nazism in modern Germany. I am also studying issues related to the history of the Weimar Republic and the Nazi Germany: social and economic development between the two world wars and, of course, and degree of political culture. I pay much attention to study myths, which are an integral component of  political culture. I pay attention to both contemporary and archaic components of myth and study its impact on human rights.
Literature Review.
     
In the research  we used the works of Hitler's "Mein Kampf", A. Rosenberg "Myth of the twentieth century", V. Klemperer "Language of the Third Reich." As sources analysis of  the data  directly provides  us information about, and views of  the main ideologists of Nazism, as well as fully helped us to understand the context of the era.
     
The autobiographical treatise "Mein Kampf" by A. Hitler's was published in 1925. This work was created for the purpose of a detailed exposition of the ideology of National Socialism, as well as for familiarization of  the reader with the biography of its founder. This source gives us the opportunity to explore the highlights of the ideology of National Socialism, to understand the causes of  such views folding  Hitler as well as to learn in detail about  ongoing while politically significant events in the first person.
     
The ideological work A. Rosenberg "Myth of the twentieth century" was published in 1930. The author tries to give a detailed justification for the superiority of the Aryan race over other nations, in essence, the same sets are the ideology of National Socialism, at some point referring to the provisions of the "My struggle. " The use of this source also gives a more complete and detailed picture of  National Socialist ideology.
     
"The language of the Third Reich"  by V. Klemperer began just created during the reign of Adolf Hitler with a view to tell future generations how to change  daily life of people, their habits, language, manner of communication with the advent of the Nazis. This source is specific in that we extract from it  information  about witnesses of events in the Third Reich. To all this, the author suggests a different kind of evidence on  certain phenomena. It should be noted that all three sources deal the problem of subjectivity in the assessment of the the overall situation of the time in Germany.
     
Highlighted by the author, whose works suggest a solid content elaboration and study of   political culture of the Weimar Republic: I.Y. Bisque, O.S. Sermon, M.I. Orlov, V.I. Tsapanov, A.V. Yahlov. It should also be said about the works of researchers who have helped us to understand the cultural peculiarities of national socialism: A. Vasil, AA Galkin, A. Yu.Melvil, P. Yu Rahshmir, B. Ruge, I. Fest, W. Schellenberg.
     
Among Western scholars to the subject of political myth, as well as the issue of National Socialism address: Lacoue-Labarthe, F., Nancy J.-L, M. Babik, M. Meyer, D. Orlow, D. Pan. These authors were explorers of the Nazi myth, ideology of National Socialism and of  culture imposed by the Nazis. The researchers studied the Nazi myth in terms of the different approaches that enable to study it from different perspectives.
Methods
     
Historical and genetic methods are used in the research. They  allow to investigate the origin and development of the studied objects and processes with regard to work on them during the formation conditions and factors. With the help of this approach is for the basic causal relationships that allow to distinguish the key points of historical development.
     
Another component of the methodological basis of the study was the phenomenological method, founded by E.  Husserl. «It is based on the principle of the liberation of the mind from perceiving empirical content and the adoption of the position of a «pure observer»». (Ðÿçàíîâà, 2013, ñ. 39) What do you think thinker «material phenomenology exclusively serve these immediate intuition». (Husserl, 2001) «It turns out that the phenomenon in question is analyzed as a holistic and having a rather complex structure. The process of knowledge of the phenomenon is carried out in the process of an intuitive act is not supposed to description and explanation of the phenomenon and experience». (Ðÿçàíîâà, 2013, ñ. 39) Phenomenology, without taking into account the existing, regards nature as a priori in consciousness. The phenomena appears to be immanent, a priori structure of consciousness of human existence, which are reflected in the space of a character, the cult of the myth.
Results Anticipated
     
We will identify three modernist component that, are working more efficiently, as they have quite a clear statement and focus on the individual rather than the traditional components of this ideology, which are aimed at more general objects.  I will also to identify the ideological components of  political culture of Germany for the period from 1918 to 1939 and to determine their functional hierarchy within the borders of this culture.

In our research we analyzed the features of  political culture of Germany in the period from 1918 to 1939. As a result, we have come to the following conclusions.
     
The main factors in the formation and development of a specific political culture of Germany for the period between 1918 and 1939 were defeated in World War I and difficult conditions in Germany the Treaty of Versailles. War-torn Germany's economy could not recover because of the huge reparations payments under the contract. As a result, the 20s were marked by economic crisis, growing unemployment and inflation, which led to the impoverishment of the masses. Poverty, insecurity have become a breeding ground for discontent across the socio-economic situation. The government of the Weimar Republic could not resolve all the urgent problems, so the Nazi party, offer a quick and real way out of a difficult situation, it received the support of the population.
     
The political culture of the Weimar Republic is characterized by having a large number of parties and the absence of a unifying ideology of the nation. The German people accepted the Treaty of Versailles as a profound defeat of Germany and the consequences of this world as the cause of their economic disaster. All of these failures were in the minds of the people associated with the management of the Weimar Republic. Attempts to revive the imperial self-management with the help of the myths were not successful. Government of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation were many mistakes made in the organization of social and political life of the country. Was eliminated political censorship, originated the Nazi movement was not perceived as a real threat to society, not suppressed by propaganda and activities of stormtroopers. Through a well-organized propaganda, the Nazis were able to influence the consciousness of the masses. The German people mentally was ready to support the party, led by tough decisive leader capable, as it seemed to most Germans, solve all their problems and improve everyday life.
     
A major role in the political life of Germany between the two world wars played monopoly bourgeoisie. Finally, realizing the failure of management to lead the country out of economic crisis, the bourgeoisie counted on Adolf Hitler and had his full support.
     
Interaction of the above factors led to the rise to power of the Nazis in 1933 and the establishment of totalitarianism in the country.
     
To achieve its goals, the Nazis root in the consciousness of people able to create their myths. Promotion of these myths has been successful because they were addressed to the most personal, intimate aspects of human life and offered a "reasonable" ways of organizing everyday life. And these images of doctrinal nature proved to be very effective, because that could affect the consciousness of the majority of the German people, who later supported Hitler in his militarist and aggressive plans.
     
No political culture can not include mythological component. Just consider the famous explorer A.Tsuladze political mythology. Mythology Nazism is a system in which quite inseparable combines features of both types of existing ontological mythology as well as the secondary, created through the efforts of ideologues.
     
S.V. Ryazanova describes in detail the components of the archetypal mythology Nazism We in our study will focus on contemporary moments in the mythology of Nazism.