At the moment, the degree of the scientific problem elaboration of electoral behavior is insufficient. The voter turnout as a part of electoral behavior is one of the most important features of electoral participation or abstention. It is considered that a high level of voter turnout means that all socio-economic groups are more or less equally represented in the electorate. This means that there is no bias in favor of wealthy citizens, who tend to be more politically active. Unfortunately, in Russia, in spite of the active work of the candidates and parties to mobilize voters, voter turnout remains low. Since voter turnout is one of the most important characteristics of electoral activity we can assume that Russia has a low level of political activity of citizens in general. For instance, the results of local and regional elections over the last decade can provide this argument. Fedorov (2015), found that people are not interested in local and regional elections because the question of power has long been resolved. 

There is a problem of mismatch between the high level of popular discontent of local and regional authorities, whereas the majority of voters choose to ignore elections, which provides the popular will and the change of power.
The purpose of the study is to construct a model that would explain how socioeconomic factors affecting voter turnout in last two local elections. It is essential to achieve the following objectives in order to answer the purpose:
1. To describe the approaches to the study of relations turnout and the factors related to the behavior of social groups.
2. To identify factors that are associated with voter turnout in the legislature at administrative center elections in regions of Russian Federation.

Theories based on western data have only limited use in the study of electoral behavior in the post-authoritarian countries. Russian specifics should be taken into account. Therefore I believe that the present research will deepen an understanding of features which take place in the electoral behavior in the modem Russian. 

The key term of study is «voting behavior». It is a form of political behavior that has captured the scholar’s attention for many decades. Understanding of the essence of voters’ behavior can explain how and why decisions were made. (Miles, 2015). Some researchers believe that rational behavior motivates citizens to participate in the electoral process by casting a vote. It follows that the next term which can be distinguished is «rational behavior». Rational behavior is closely linked to the rational choice theory which was created by early neoclassical economists, like Jevons W.S. The main idea is that the key players are of individual actors, each of whom is making their own decisions based on certain benefits.

The study of electoral behavior began in the mid-20th century, when "ñlassical" theory of electoral behavior began to emerge. (Bartels, 2008). However, in this study must be considered that the use of "classical" theories of electoral behavior, developed based on a study of stable Western democracies, in relation to the new democracies, can be fraught with considerable simplifications. (Shevchenko, 2008). It is necessary to take into account the differences in the political, cultural and economic context in each country. Therefore, the factors that may affect the voter turnout, for example, in Kyrgyzstan, will not necessarily determine the turnout in Russia. (Hill, Huskey, 2012). On the question of how voters vote in Russia, are trying to answer A.S. Ahremenko and R.F Turovsky, continuing to develop the cleavage theory. According to Lipset S. and Rokkan S. cleavage theory based on four basic cleavages for western civilization: center vs. periphery (this split connects the degree of voting for right-wing parties with the degree of infrastructure development), state vs. church, owner vs. worker and land vs. industry. Many researchers assume that the conceptions of the above mentioned scholars had the greatest impact on formation of electoral behavior and voter turnout understanding.

Besides the analyzed "classical" concepts of electoral behavior I analyzed the way how socio-economic and demographic indicators determine the voter turnout. Economic development has had a serious impact on the political participation of citizens. It contributes to the creation and distribution of resources, such as access to information, access to higher education and increase income levels. In addition, economic development transforms the relations among different groups in society, thus creating a variety of interests. All this may well increase political activity of citizens and stimulate voter turnout. (Blais, Massicotte, Dobrzynska, 2003).

Since the work is devoted to the electoral behavior of voters at administrative center elections in regions of Russian Federation, for a better understanding of what are the administrative centers, we can refer to "City authorities: the administrative centers of Russia" (Leksin, 2009). Researcher deals with the problem of contraction a large part of the capital's economic and social potential in one point.
After classic theories we jumped to a more up to date studies, one of them is « The Social Context of Voter Turnout ». (Straits, 1990).
Limitations. It is important to outline the main limitations of the research. The process of constructing a model that explains electoral behavior of Russian voters is not an easy task. In order to construct this model in SPSS that is used in this research, first of all, it is necessary to pick up a number of essential social and economic factors that could have an impact on voting behavior. However, there are complexities concerning the lack of statistical data for each administrative centers in Russia. Secondly, we are not able to test whether there is impact of some nonstatistical factors on electoral behavior. For example, we can not calculate the level of culture in every administrative center and influence of friends’ and relatives’ opinions, because it is quite difficult to find the results of the public-opinion polls. In addition, it is necessary to admit the complexities connecting with the fact that we are not able to verify the accuracy of provided statistical data.  It is impossible to take into account the impact of all factors on the behavior of voters. Thus, the main limitations are connected with indicators. 

In this study, a sociological model of voting behavior will be used. « The theoretical assumptions of the sociological model of voting behavior are described in three main works: The People’s Choice (Lazarsfeld, Berelson, & Gaudet, 1944), Voting (Berelson, Lazarsfeld, & McPhee, 1954) and Personal Influence (Katz & Lazarsfeld, 1955) ». (Antunes, 2010). According to this approach political preferences of voters determine their belonging to big social groups and each of these groups provides a particular political direction of a stable base of support.  The process of creating model of voting behavior is hypothesizing and, then, testing this hypothesis. In order to verify the hypotheses statistical methods such us correlation analysis and regression analysis in a special statistical program named «Statistical Package for the Social Sciences» (SPSS) will be used.

The main method used in carrying out the study is correlation analysis. The aim of the correlation analysis is to reveal whether two or more variables co vary, and to quantify the strength of the relationship between them. Also it seems necessary to use the regression analysis, which expresses the relationship in the form of an equation. In the regression analysis, the problem of interest is the essence of the relationship between dependent and independent variables. This is the most commonly used techniques for determining the relationship between two or more variables. 

The following part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. In this research I expect to have confirmation or denial of the hypotheses made. So, some of the hypotheses can be as follows: 
1) It is likely, the age will be the key factors which determine the voter turnout, because young people are much less likely to vote than are older people, and they are less likely to be politicians. Older people are more politically active. (Robbins, Rybalko, 2013).
2) High level of unemployment is positively correlated with voter turnout because people who lost their jobs are more likely to go to the polls in the hope of better economic prospects and changes in the situation. (Robbins, Rybalko, 2013).
3) The next hypothesis is that people with low income are less likely to participate in elections. 
I assume that all of the hypotheses will be confirmed.  

In conclusion I would like to indicate briefly the main idea of the research. The problem of the study concerns determination of factors which affect the voter turnout.  We have to approach the answer to the question why a lot of voters in Russia choose to ignore elections and what factors determine the turnout in the elections if they decide to participate. As a result of our work, we should get a model that would explain how socioeconomic factors affecting voter turnout. Besides some complex data will be presented in tables. Some nonlinear relationship will be shown in figures. All other results will be reported in the narrative text.