Nowadays the Internet is used for various purposes from marketing to political ones. Online tools are actively used mostly in European countries and the USA. Particularly generating political PAY-PER-CLICK campaigns is the most frequent way to use online technologies to achieve certain kind of political behavior. (Appendices 1,2) Indeed, political arrangements are often promoted through social media platforms. However, Russian political strategists hardly ever involve online tools in their work, and only some political parties tried using PAY-PER-CLICK ads. Therefore, our research questions are:
- Is PAY-PER-CLICK advertising in Google an effective tool for electoral campaigning?
- What audience shows most engagement? (demographic profile)
- Citizens of what regions are more likely to engage in political content?
- What target politically characterized actions users are ready to do on a website? 
- What is the reaction on politically designed ads?
- Is there any dependence between doing target actions on a website and demographic or geographic profiles?

PAY-PER-CLICK tools have already proved their ability to make users behave a certain way on the websites and to send truly target traffic to the needed pages. But PAY-PER-CLICK advertising is not used or is hardly ever used for attracting users to the political websites, which can make them vote for a certain candidate, give their answers to the poll questions without any enforcement and when they feel absolutely comfortable sitting in front of their computers and not being disturbed by the promoters in the streets, or feeling embarrassed by getting their voices recorded.
 
Working experience in online-marketing niche shows that smart Yandex.Direct and Google Adwords campaigns can help raise awareness of a product among target groups of people and that leads to the growth of online and offline sales. Looking into Timothy J. Ryan’s research «What Makes Us Click? Demonstrating Incentives for Angry Discourse with Digital-Age Field Experiments», the idea of implementing other digital tools in political campaigning appears naturally. 
    
Assumptions: 
1. Young audience is more likely to do actions on a website, as long as they feel more confident using computer devices with the Internet connection.
2. Political ads placed on the Internet are more familiar to users from the center of Russia.
3. Emotional political ads attract more attention than neutral ones, and the following actions can depend on the ad’s message.
4. Users try not to leave their personal data on the websites containing political content.
     
Definitions of Key Terms:
Pay-per-click advertising – a kind of online advertising, where advertisers pay for every click on their ads.
Visitor – the unique visitor of a webpage.
Ad’s attractiveness is counted using CTR (Click-Through-Rate), ratio of number of clicks and number of ad impressions.
Target Action – completing forms, downloading files or any button clicks.
Bounce Rate – website session that lasts less than 10 seconds and shows that user was not interested in the content at all. 
Website session time – the amount of time user has spent on a target page.
     
Research Tasks 
1. To create a target page with political content
2. To design political ads in Google Adwords, so that we will be able to attract traffic
3. Choosing targeting settings, selecting target regions
4. To collect statistical data of user behavior
5. To analyze stats and implement regression and correlation methods.
6. Interpretation of results

Limitations:
- Google is the only search engine that will be used, because we have all special certificates confirming our ability to work with Google Adwords and Google Analytics. 
- We will create only one target page, as long as website development gets a certain amount of time and resources.
- Experiment will last one month, because we have to pay for every click on our ads and there will be enough data collected during this period to reach our goals. Usually PAY-PER-CLICK marketing tests take about 2-3 weeks. 
     
Boundaries:
- In our research we will use only those traffic that comes from Google and Google partner-network. To get more precise results of online political campaigns it is also recommended to run tests through social media platforms.
- Running real political campaigns in Google can help political organizations succeed, so that the biggest Russian IT company Yandex may decide to allow political parties to use its technologies during electoral processes. To make this happen a lot of effort is needed. Now political advertising in Yandex is forbidden. 

With the development of digital technology, more ways of reaching political goals appear, moreover, young generation has already adjusted to online arrangements. However, political campaigns remain the same as they were years and years ago. Electoral campaigns always include outdoor and indoor advertising, opinion polls in the streets (the quality of these polls is not as good as it could be, as long as promoters ask respondents to answer the questions even if they do not understand what the topic is about), public speeches. Such a format does not attract people anymore and it even annoys the majority of the population, because the mottos and photos of candidates do not have any special mood or message. Implementing new digital technologies will help roll out political campaigns of high quality, attract new audiences to participate in political parties’ activity, and encourage them to attend political arrangements.

Research is based on the experiment of American political scientist Timothy Ryan, who launched targeting campaign in Facebook and told about its results in 2012. His goal was to prove the ability of targeting ads, directed to call for a certain emotion in a user, to influence user behavior on a target web page with political content. (Ryan, 2012)
     
Besides, we will use the works of American researches “A 61-million-person” experiment in social influence and political mobilization”, in which informative and social Facebook messages are compared, and their ability to make people vote is analyzed. (Robert M. Bond, Christopher J. Fariss, Jason J. Jones, Adam D. I. Kramer, Cameron Marlow, Jaime E. Settle & James H. Fowler, 2012)
     
To perform an experiment, it is essential to discover how the rules of placing political ads in Google work, so that we can design a correct political message in a form of a PAY-PER-CLICK ad. (Google, 2016)
     
To implement the method, we will use the work “Experimental method in psychology” by Kornilova T. V., in which correlation approach and experimental research are fully described. (Kornilova, 2009)

Experimental and correlative approach. The research is aimed at practical use.
     
The core method: social experiment on the Internet using digital technology, correlation, regression, descriptive stats.
     
Data collection is realized by means of Yandex 
“Cripta” technology, that detect groups of users and their behavior on the target web pages. The stats are collected by the website counters and displayed in Yandex.Metrika tool. Indeed, traffic analyzing tool Google Analytics will be used.
     
Data analysis will be performed in SPSS, which allows to discover dependencies among variables and conduct regression and correlation analysis.  
     
Interpretation will include description of collected data and SPSS analysis results.
          
Finally, we are expecting to get enough statistical indicators to prove that PAY-PER-CLICK advertising is an effective tool of sending traffic to political websites. Then we will discover what kinds of users are more likely to make target actions on the websites and what regions are more engaged.

To sum up, the study is practically focused, and we are going to share our experience with the experts working on improving political campaigns. Chapter 1 fully describes the advantages and risks that pay-per-click advertising comes with. Chapter 2 is a guide of an effective start of your political campaign. And, finally, Chapter 3 shows how to interpret results and optimize the considering, those statistics that have already been collected.