Political parties have a tremendous impact on change of a discourse in modern French policy that is why there is a huge number of parties in this country. The politician, who wants to achieve success in this sphere in France, has to create the political party thus there are a lot of small parties in the French political field, but they have no influence on the political agenda in general and cannot resolve many issues, important for the country. 
     
In the research will be analyzed the largest at this moment French party «Union for a popular movement» (about 200000 memberships in 2015), which was created in 2002.  The leaders of this party several times became presidents of France, for example, Jacques Chirac (the founder of this party) and Nicolas Sarkozy (in 2007), other representatives of the party take active part and win local elections. So, it is possible to draw a conclusion that the French party «Union for a popular movement» actively participates in policy, has huge influence on decision-making, for example, in the parliament (200 deputies from 577), and also its leaders constantly fight for the power on elections at different levels and one of them is the main competitor for the president's post on elections in 2016, therefore, the subject of this research is acute.

The party unites a huge number of people among whom there are 5 leaders who offer the ideas in policy and perform the decisive roles, their main ideas are similar and stated in the party program, but there are partial distinctions which are shown in relations to contemporary events. If to look at the French ideological spectrum, it is possible to see that the party «Union for a popular movement» includes partially liberal and traditionalist ideologies, but for this party liberal conservatism which in France has 3 internal paradigms is the main ideology. So, the major issue of this research is a mixture of political and ideological paradigms in one party.
     
The purpose of this research is to identify political and ideological paradigms in the modern French party «Union for a popular movement». Seen in their relations to the general purpose, a number of specific tasks should be emphasized:
1. To describe the history of the French political party «Union for a popular movement»
2. To outline political and ideological external contours of this French political party
3. To reveal internal paradigms in this political party.
4. To define leading ideologist in «Union for a popular movement». To determine their political and ideological identity.

In the modern world there is paradigm shift in all sphere of society and policy is not an exception, there are changes of leaders, the new ideologies are created. That is why external contours and internal paradigms of party change depending on the political situation occurring in the one country and the politicians leading a party. Therefore it is necessary to constantly investigate changes in large parties that rarely political scientists do in relation to the French parties.

The key question of this research can be formulated the following way: if there are internal paradigm shift in the French political party «Union for a popular movement» and if we answer positively this question, the following will be what paradigms there are.
     
Definitions of key terms. Paradigm is «a framework containing the basic assumptions, ways of thinking, and methodology that are commonly accepted by members of a scientific community» (Melvil, 2013, p. 579).
Literature Review
     
In this work the main concepts are paradigm and ideologies namely conservatism. There are a lot of definitions of the term paradigm. In this work is used the definition offered by the famous Russian political scientist Melvil «a framework containing the basic assumptions, ways of thinking, and methodology that are commonly accepted by members of a scientific community» (Melvil, 2013, p. 579). 
     
The famous scientist Thomas Kuhn had the huge influence on the introduction of the concept to a wide turn. In his work «The Structure of Scientific Revolutions» he reveals this term by means of idea about paradigm shift in science, but we do not use this work in the research because T. Kuhn describe paradigms as phenomena in science in general and  in this work paradigms is considered as phenomena in political sphere. The term paradigms and interpretation of monograph T. Kuhn through a policy prism did the French politician P.Favre in the work «Des paradigmes dans la science politique fran?aise?». In this monograph the author explains what paradigms can be in political science and whether there are paradigms in political science now. The author says that "paradigms in the French political science experience considerable changes if there is a set of changes in a paradigm, there is "a scientific revolution" about which T. Kuhn wrote, this tendency will proceed and in the future» [Favre, 2009]. The author gives various interpretations of the concept "paradigm" of French political science, and also considers it from different points of view, for example, as adherents of the theory of a rational choice, Bourdieu's ideas, representatives of Marxism and so on look at this concept. Having chosen one of the definitions of a political paradigm, it is possible to narrow the subject of the research, and, therefore, to look more specifically at this problem.
      
Another important definition for this research offered by Melvil is term conservatism «is a political ideology adherents of which support traditional values, conservation of stability (order) and succession as factors of sustainable development of society» (Melvil, 2013, p.566).
     
The main monograph in this sphere is the work of the political and ideological range of Alain Cohen-Dumouchel «Carte de l’ ?chiquier politique fran?ais». The author in this work analyses the French policy of a paradigm from the extremely left to the extremely right views (socialism, liberalism, a conservatism, etc.) and to what values they adhere (from etatism, constructivism, planisme, dirigism on the one hand to liberalism, the sovereignty, individualism with other hand). Then he divides all range into 2 zones - inclusiveness and departure of parties from the political theory. After that he identifies the principal leaders of the party (in one party there can be several) and looks for similarities and distinctions in their ideas that are stated in the program documents and interview with leaders of this parties. For example, in the party «Front nationale» there are two chief leaders - its founder J.M. Le Pen and his daughter M. Le Pen, being in one party, they adhere to absolutely different views, therefore, in a political and ideological range are in different paradigms, and, therefore the party includes bigger number of internal ideologies because it has to include all representatives, so, this monograph demonstrate existence of internal paradigms in all big French party. The party under the analysis is also regarded in this research. This monograph describes modern political parties and their internal trends, including "Union for a popular movement", and also this work was written by the French political scientist who is in the political agenda in France and is in more detail informed that about the policy of this country.
     
In Russia one of the main monographs on conservatism (the ideology of the party "Union for a popular movement") is research "Conservatism in the past and the present" which authors are A. Galkin and P. Rakhshmir. They fully described how conservatism in the majority of the developed countries, such as, for example, the USA, Great Britain and some other in the XX century changed. We will be interested in part, devoted to the evolution of conservatism in France in the second half of the XX century. In this monograph, of course, it is not said about the present stage of conservatism in France as the work was written in the late nineties of the XX century, but it is possible to track, what paradigms already developed throughout the second half of the XX century, what main values and ideas of representatives of a conservatism adhere, therefore, and one of representatives of this ideology - UMP will adhere to those. This work is still of an interesting that is actually only in Russia in which the French policy is studied, thanks to this monograph demonstrate a view of the Russian political scientists about the French political agenda.
     
"Europe, a political profile" by Slomp H. gives the general understanding of various ideologies in Europe, and describes the policy of large countries until 2011, for example, author speaks about who was the head of the Parliament and  who was the presidents in different European countries and why they were chosen by society (for example thanks to the program of their party or the charisma of the politician). For the research it is important to understand how interpret conservatism in Europe on the example of the monograph of Slomp, its borders  (internal and external), and also to read about presidents who were leaders of UMP party, for example, G. Chirac - her founder and N. Sarkozy.
     
The work "Modern French conservatism: political and ideological paradigms" is also about conservatism in France. The main ideas the main ideas which are used in the research are in modern French conservatism there are three paradigms: liberal conservatism, traditionalism and far-right conservatism. Representatives of liberal conservatism support both liberal and conservative values. They support various kinds of freedom of the person, rule of law – this is liberal ideas, and conservative – protection of values, ideals and symbols of the past. Liberal conservatism is subdivided into two internal currents: left gaullism and  right gaullism. Representatives of left gaullism rely on ideas of capitalists, late socialists, radicals and on ideas of de Gaulle, changed under the influence of the modern world. Representatives of right gaullism (or social gaullism) rely the traditional ideas of de Gaulle and their slogan is France - the strong and independent state. So, all this paradigms of liberal conservatism are represented in party "Union for a popular movement".

This part of the proposal focuses on methods which will be applied. The qualitative content analysis and discourse analysis will be used for the analysis. There is a set of various approaches to the discourse analysis. In the work a narrow approach will be used. Adherents of this approach in the analysis of reality use the concept "discourse frame" [Akhremenko, 2006]. The choice of this method is caused by that it aids to the consider program of the party «Union for a popular movement» through a discourse frame of ideologies. Thanks to the full analysis of the political program of the party which is carried out through the prism of ideologies it will be possible to understand what ideology supports this party, as well as using the discourse analysis, which will be held for the consideration of other official documents of the party, as a result it will be possible to infer the presence or absence of internal paradigms in the party.
     
The qualitative content analysis represents "objective studying of texts with a research objective of social processes (objects, phenomena) description of which is included in these texts " [Fedotova, 2001]. In this method it is also important to consider social reality which can be not included in the text, but influences the described event. The choice of this method is caused by that a great number of researchers use this method in the analysis of mass media, and in this work by means of this method reaction of the chief representatives of the party «Union for a popular movement» to the significant events occurring in the French society which were covered by means of mass media (representing various ideologies, for example, "Le monde" newspaper represents conservatism) will be considered. So, whether it will be possible to see there are distinctions between opinion of the party leader (or the official statement of party) and others representatives.
     
So, firstly in this work will be shown the history of the party and are revealed the vector of transformation, previous leaders, and also ideology which this party supports. Having analyzed all official sources of party, and also mass media about «Union for a popular movement» as a result the authors of this work will answer questions: whether there are internal disagreements in party concerning important subjects, events occurring in the French society, whether it is possible to divide adherents of these ideas into groups, whether they will be currents or these are paradigms. Thanks to the analysis of party through texts which are described in Literature Review, it is possible to reveal paradigms or trends are presented in the party. If there are internal paradigms in this party at the end of this research classification of paradigms will be presented. It is possible to assume that four internal paradigms are in this party, their leaders are Nicolas Sarkozy, Dominique de Villepin, Pierre M?haignerie and Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet. The classification of paradigms will be presented in the table, in which on a horizontal line there will be names of paradigms and their leaders, and down - the significant events which occurred in France during the time period which is considered in work. The most important will be the crossing of lines in the table where reaction of each paradigm to an event will be described, it will be so possible to notice a difference between them.

So, paradigms exist not only in the ideological spectrum but also can be represented within one party.  Paradigms influence on the ideas and views of party, which in turns influences on the political agenda in one country that is why for example in the party «Union for a popular movement» where it is expected to reveal 4 internal paradigms there are internal political struggles of leaders of the paradigms. In this party not ideologies create paradigms as it was assumed earlier, and the leaders lusting after power. 