There is currently the advance of the role of the press in creating of the image of politicians due to the spread of the Internet in our life. The influence of mass media on society including political processes increases year by year. At the same time political leaders are trying to use this resource in order to form their images and create a certain reputation among the audience. Besides the image which was created to the politician can usually be the result of actions of his competitors. 

Despite the increased popularity of this topic some vital aspects are poorly understood. It will be interesting to know what motivates various political papers to support or not to support some politicians. Thus, this research focuses on exploring in the depth of the problem of differences of real connection of political press with any party. The ultimate goal of this project is to provide a kind of logical reconstruction of the process of creating the image of the French president F. Hollande in the Anglo-Saxon press. The project has the number of specific aims. To achieve the goal we construct the image of F. Hollande using British and American press accordingly, then we compare resulting constructs and identify differences and common features. 

There is a number of theoretical constraints in the study of this problem. The most important limitation is that the topic is weakly developed. Another requirement lies in the coverage of sources. Many British and American political papers are not published in the Internet. To solve this problem we divide press by parties: the Liberal, Conservative and Labor parties in Britain and Republican and Democratic parties in the USA.

Different aspects of the problem were reflected in Russian and foreign scientific literature. Political aspects of journalism and the role of information in the political process are considered by many researchers, such as A. Vaganova, V. Vorobiev, M. Grachev, Y. Nisnevich, V. Popov. Among the foreign researchers we can call T. Aalberg, F. Esser, K. de Vries, J. Strombak. Existing works are mainly of historical interest or concern some individual aspects, which can be developed. 

At first it is necessary to define the key terms of research. Under the term “image of political leader” it is generally understood his image in social consciousness (O. Potemkina, 2006). We see this as only the image created by press and we not pay attention to such factors as the biography and other personal characteristics. “Anglo-Saxon press” is the range of modern British and American press relating to political life, for example, monthly conservative magazine “Conservative news” or “The New York Times”. 

Numerous attempts have been made to provide a solid grounding into the topic of creating the image of political leader. The essence of M. Zamskaya’s approach could be defined as the main instrument, an effective force in shaping the image of the state in general, and the image of a political leader, in particular, is currently the media. The subject of M. Zamskaya’s research is the structure of the image of a political leader in modern political interaction and features of its formation in the media. The study allows drawing the tenet that the specifics of the process the political leader image forming in the modern way. In view of this, analyzing the image of the political leader based on the politician personal characteristics and on his means of expression is necessary to take into account the active participation of stakeholders converting media space. In these circumstances scholars on the one hand analyze the structure of self-consciousness, the mounting position of the politicians themselves as direct participants of the process, on the other hand, identify characteristics of collective representations of journalists of  the structure of politician’s image (M. Zamskaya, 2005). A focus on collective representations of journalists seems to miss a vital aspect about ideological affiliation of different political editions.
     
It is difficult to overestimate the extraordinary importance of A. Bludova’s contribution to the image of the politician in the structure of mass communication. The research attempts to distinguish the concepts "image", "image" and "reputation". The following categories were taken as the basis for the study. “The purpose of power” is the factor which describes the attitude of the political leadership to the country, state, people, shows the position of the state policy. “Force of a personality” – the factor describes natural physical strength, health, activity level, etc. “Self-expression” – it is the concept which combines expressive of the facial expressions and speech, artistry, wit, emancipation, etc. “Moral and ethical position of the leader” describes moral and spiritual qualities and values ??of the politician. “Management style” is similar to the previous one, but first of all it describes features of the communicative style, the trend to peaceful settlement of conflicts, or vice versa. “Communicative installation” is the installation of a political leader in the interaction with people. “Religiosity” is a factor which reflects spirituality of the political leader and the form in which it is embodied. “Masculinity – femininity” is associated with differentiation of sex roles, it reflects the type of men, the male breadwinner who is characterized by patriarchal mentality. “The type of thinking” - is characterized by a trend to make policy decisions one way or another (A. Bludova, 2006).

I. Volkova , V. Klimenko, L. Safrazyan  research our topic in potentially important work “The image of the work of political leaders in the media”. The study derives the basic theoretical postulates, it is an opportunity to develop a methodology allowing, on the one hand, to carry out detailed processing of information on an array of leaders and, on the other hand, to compile this material by means of a special system of coefficients in a composite index, i.e. the rating index. Researchers regard the concept of “image” from the point of view of functional approach.

As a result, the study offers the opportunity to "measure" the flow of information, impact on mass consciousness for each of the monitored leaders. The calculation assumed a large number of parameters, i.e. the theme of statements of leaders and about the leaders; the number of statements; positive, neutral or negative statements; genre material, which passed sentence; the amount of television l time and others.
     
From the point of view of the functional approach, it is appropriate to divide the image of the politician into the components: the first component is “the political positions of leadership”. The second component is “practical policy leader”. The third component is “the personal qualities of the leader”. The fourth component is “the visual image of the leader”.
     
Each component of the image was divided into categories reflecting the content of the component. Categories are topics on which authors carried thematic content analysis. Any mentioning of the leaders in connection with the topic was recorded. The genre of publications (information, essays, interviews, analysis) and the nature of the statements (positive feedback about the leader, neutral or negative) are taken into consideration. The component “visual image” is recorded in the area of publication press and television time (I. Volkova , V. Klimenko, L. Safrazyan, 1997).
     
In our research it will be used the constructivist approach. “Constructivism is an approach to social analysis that deals with the role of human consciousness in social life. It asserts that human interaction is shaped primarily by ideational factors, not simply material ones; that the most important ideational factors are widely shared or “intersubjective” beliefs, which are not reducible to individuals; and that these shared beliefs construct the interests of purposive actors” (M. Finnemore  and K. Sikkink). It can be said that the ideas and communication are the essence of the constructivist approach to the analysis of social facts and processes. Ideas can not perform its constitutive role without communication, which makes them joint for people. And policy ideas and communication are in the focus of a number of researchers.
     
Our methods will be content analysis and comparison. “Ñontent analysis is systematic numerical processing, evaluation and interpretation of the form and content of the information source” (J. B. Mannheim,  R. K. Rich, 1997). The content analytical study unit of analysis is just a single element or an indication message that we are going to study, evaluate or cheat. The simplest element of communication is the word, and it can be used in the content analysis of the most direct way. 
     
Comparative studies according to P. Pennings and H. Keman may vary following way: “the single case study (either a country, an event or systemic feature), the single case study over time (i.e. a historical study or time series analysis), two or more cases at a few time intervals (i.e. closed universe of discourse), all cases that are relevant regarding the research question under review, all relevant cases across time and space (e.g. pooled time series analysis)” (P. Pennings and H. Keman). We will compare the two cases: åðó case of America and the United Kingdom.
     
As a result we are going to get the analyzed image of the president Francois Hollande in the mirror of the Anglo-Saxon press. Ñomparing the cases of America and Great Britain, we get the difference between the image constructed by the two countries. 
     
The comparison will be carried out by the parties; we get the difference in the way the president image interpretation by the liberal, conservative and libertarian parties separately. For example, Conservatives in Great Britain publish a monthly magazine "News conservative" ("Conservative News"), the magazine "Politics Today screen" ("Politics Today") (published every 2 weeks). American Ñonservatives publish Weekly Standard, National Review, American Conservative, American spectator.  We compare the ratio of these newspapers and magazines to Francois Hollande and obtain a general and differences in relation to the President. In the same way we research the other parties to provide an overall picture in the construction of the image of the President. 
     
Our findings will help to contribute to the solution of the problem of differences of real connection of political press with any party.Purpose of this study is to analyze the image of the French President Francois Hollande in the mirror of Anglo-Saxon press.Analyzing Conservative, Liberal and Libertarian publications of the two countries (United States of America and Great Britain) we have learned about how different and similar positions of the two countries to the figure of the President. These findings will help us not only to understand how the countries form in their media image of the politician (French President Francois Hollande), but also to explain how an ideological platforms of parties differ from actual applications. These findings help to highlight key points in the process of formation of political image in general and find the key aspects which differ the Conservative, Liberal and Libertarian parties in the United States and in Britain. These findings have great importance for political science.
     
To sum up this project is possible to consider an attempt to present some evidence for the importance of understanding the fact that the politician’s image is not formed in accordance with politician’s real actions, but in accordance with the ideological grounds or parties which involved in the process of creating this image.