The electoral behavior of citizens in the current period is one of the trends in modern Russian political science, debated in huge number of monographs and collections of articles. Researchers in the field of electoral behavior set themselves the task to find out why the voters in the elections voted for it in a way that influenced their choice to support this or that party, this or that candidate.

Answers to these questions provide researchers, using different methods and approaches. The methods of mathematical statistics are widely used in the study of electoral behavior in Western political science. The main advantage of these methods lies in their ability to detect the relationship between the studied parameters and to offer explanatory models, with the help of which become possible to prove empirically the influence of some factors on the outcome of the vote. However, the basic theories of electoral behavior have been adapted for Russia. Some of those theories applied in the works of reputable domestic researchers are the theory of rational choice (economic voting) and the theory of cleavages.
     
Using leading electoral theories, backed by empirical data and mathematical modeling we have all the features to identify the reasons due to which the voters to support a particular party or candidate.
	
The research is based on the works of Russian investigator that used theories of cleavages by Rokkan and Lipset to explain results of voting in the last decade in the Russian Federation. There are key works by professors Turovsky R. and Achremenko A. from Higher School of Economics which give a broader theoretical basis and application of political science tools to this research. However, all cases of important factors have not described yet. And this fact gives a field of new study with a new set of explanatory elements.     
     
Based on the assumption that electoral activity and preferences of the population is affected by various social and economic factors, the main purpose is  to reveal the impact of social and economic factors on the turnout of the population and to support the political parties participating in the elections to the State Duma 2011.
     
To achieve the purpose of the research it is important to make three actions.  First of all, it is necessary to name literature review with accumulation of the landmark theories which will be used and factors that will be chosen to inclusion in the model. Secondly, using math tools will be given and explained in methods review. And finally, calculating regression models will be interpreted.  

According to problem statement the research applies to the question of the influence of social tension, expressed in the specific factors on electoral behavior of two taken Federal districts voters, and not the psychological motive of an individual voter.     

Despite the vast opportunities of the researcher who is ready to apply methods of statistical analysis in the field of electoral behavior, the number of serious researches in which the methods were correctly and reasonably applied, over the past decade have grown slightly. This is due to the complexity of mastering applied quantitative tools. It should be borne in mind that the Russian experts on electoral statistics often during elections act as workers performing a job for the study of electoral space for a candidate or party, while results for obvious reasons are not published: collect to conduct political campaign information about the behavior of voters in the district are considered closed and not subject to disclosure. Information published in scientific works and monographs describes the situation in Russia in general, not venturing in certain regions, in other words, not putting before itself the purpose to study the general and the particular in the impact of social and economic factors in various regions of Russia. This means that little advance has been achieved in the field of studies.
     
After the Duma elections in December 2011, the number of publications in periodical non-scientific journals dramatically increased, in which, for all that, the professionals were presented with scientific conclusions about the available fraud in favor of a certain party. The main instruments of the definition of «fixed» results were quantitative methods. But, again, few scientists have sought to identify the relationship between social factors and preferences of voters in "clean" areas. 
     
Therefore, following the scientific logic, below I will give an overview of those works that somehow can be considered as background for this study. These works give selection of social and economic factors that were used to build regression models that verify the set of research hypotheses, as well as a launch pad for the interpretation of some obtained conclusions.
	
Firstly we pay attention to the social division in modern Russian society, which A. S. Achremenko gives in "Social cleavages and patterns of electoral space of Russia". There are the following groups of factors: demographic, education, living standards, social differentiation, the consumer market and innovative development (Achremenko, 2007, p. 86). Each of these groups includes several factors. The main conclusion which the researcher comes to on the basis of regression models is that by the mid-2000s, the government got its greatest support in rural areas and the national republics (Achremenko, 2007, p. 90). There are not only visible cleavages, but there is also the relationship between electoral preferences of citizens and social and economic indicators.
     
The cleavage between the centre and the periphery as an explanation of regional polarization is given by R. F. Turovsky (Turovsky, 2006, p. 13). The periphery can be defined as in management, and in socio-economic terms. This cleavage shows the confrontation between urban and rural areas. 
     
Here R.F. Turovsky notes the important fact associated with the use of correlation analysis: there are motivation, spiritual and cultural context that cannot be represented in the numerical form. This means that specific filter “turn on” between indicators, which does not obey mathematical laws (Turovsky, 2006, p. 15).
     
In the "Regional identity in modern Russia" R.F. Turovsky writes that in the regional context the results of the voting can be explained through the effect of some groups of factors. Among the major influencing factors are the following: socio-economic conditions, the national factor and factors from the theory of electoral geography (Turovsky. URL: http://www.bastion. ru/files/eb/REGIDENT.DOC (reference date: 28.10.2015)). The power cleavage between urban and rural areas is confirmed in the work of 2012, written on the date of the Duma elections. As the scholar explains, villages tend to vote the party in power, because there is a significant organizational resource and a less developed information field that cannot provide alternative information (Turovsky, 2012, p. 118).
     
Other researchers highlight the group of six major social factors that have a direct impact on various electoral behavior of the population in the areas of: 1) the proportion of the urban population; 2) proximity to the center; 3) ethnicity; 4) the proportion of young people; 5) the predominant activities; 6) the structure of social ties. It is also noted that the Russian electoral behavior, unlike most Western countries, is characterized by the influence of objective social factors (Grishin. URL: http://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/sotsialnye-faktory-elektoralnoy-geografii (reference date: 28.10.2015)).
     
The worsening social situation particularly affects electoral preferences of the population, when there is an election, local or regional authorities are directly responsible for the welfare of the district. In this case, such factors as unemployment, wage levels and environmental pollution may not be the last influence on the choice of the "angry" voter (Burov, Sarmatin, 2009, p. 69).
     
I cannot remain without attention the emerging features of political culture of modern Russia and all the widening gap in the political beliefs of the Center (city) and periphery (rural). While the urban electorate “goes to the right” rural is opposed dramatically “goes to the left”. There is a process of polarization of political preferences among the population (Kolosov, Borodulin. URL: http://www.civisbook.ru/files/File/Kolosov_2004_4.pdf (reference date: 17.10.2015)).
     
In the author's article, also band on the results of state Duma elections 2011, was made to explain the support of the ruling party by the electorate in the Federal districts of the Russian Federation. Ural and Volga Federal districts studied here had identified a feature that attracts particular attention. Described Achremenko and Turovsky the ethnic cleavage has played against the party of the power: the regions with predominance of the Russian population, much less willingly gave their votes in support of the current government, while national regions willingly voted for the party. At the same time the unemployment rate was better in these two industrialized districts than in whole Russia (Klemeshov, 2015).
	
Some works were made in the field of study. Russian scientists did titanic works trying to establish laws of electoral preferences of Russian voters. But for all that, scholars covering national trends overlook features of voting in individual regions, leaving a field for the research. 

As this work is empirical, the methods of mathematical statistics will be used. Set of these methods will be used in the work, where will be built the mathematical model and interpreted the results. 
     
The mathematical methods and tools that will be used in the research are existed: 
• Scatter plots;
• Pearson correlation coefficient;
• Regression model.
     
Charting scatter plot allows evaluating the presence and the type of relationship between the variables before computing correlation coefficients. And besides, visualization can be further rid of those observations which will be recognized as atypical for this study.
     
The theoretical correlation coefficient indicates the measure of relationship of two variables. The correlation coefficient lies in the interval [-1;1]. Lack of communication corresponds to value 0. At the same time it is possible to allocate the following breakdown symmetrically zero: (0;0.3) – no communication or little communication; (0.3;0.7) power connection; (0.7;1) – strong connectivity. If the correlation coefficient is negative, then the relationship between the variables will be reversed; if positive, it is direct (Tyurin and Makarov, 2002, p. 284).
	
A necessary step in the evaluation of the correlation coefficient is to test the hypothesis of significance of correlation coefficients. The null hypothesis is that the lack of communication. The alternative hypothesis states that the coefficient is different from zero. The correlation coefficient is associated with a value having a Student's distribution.
	
Evaluation of the coefficient of correlation gives the possibility to select in the model the predictors that are associated with the studied variable.	
	
In the study at different stages, a model of the steam room and multiple regressions are used. The regression model is dependence of a dependent variable from explanatory variables. The dependence in a linear regression model is expressed linearly (Bluman, pp.551-552).
     
To build multiple regression models by the procedure of the step-by-step analysis in which the predictors included in the stepwise model will be used. The first step in the model included the predictor that has the greatest influence on the studied variable among all the others. While adding a new predictor does not necessarily substantially change the value of the coefficient of determination. In such a model all predictors may not include due to the fact that the predictors may be associated with each other. Step-by-step inclusion will allow to build as many regression models many predictors included in the model. The study examines the model with a large number of variables included.

The results of the work are a series of regression models explain the nature of the electorate voting for one party or another. However, the ultimate aim is not the construction of mathematical models, but their interpretation. Actually, it is not possible to offer different interpretations of the models in the absence of ready-made calculations in the form of models. Based on the previous research, it can be argued that the strong predictor will be factors characterizing the ethnic composition of the population and remoteness from the regional center. Depending on the party, its values will vary.  It is worth considering that this statement requires empirical evidence because despite the similar time the frame of the study was performed on an extended database. And the increase of the covered territory could lead to a serious change of values of parameters in the models.
 
In conclusion I would like to repeat clear and concisely the mail ideas of this research. Despite the current developments in the field of research, numerous blank spots in the field are not found. This fact allows to conduct the research and to widen the scope of knowledge about the electoral behavior of Urals and Volga regions voters. Using leading national electoral theories in the study I will give the interpretation of the constructed mathematical models and, therefore, explain what social and economic factors was most influence the electoral choice of citizens. Moreover, received scientifically proven results can be used by parties and by candidates to plan the election campaign in the next election cycle.   