Introduction
Background. The concept of lean management was initially developed by American scholars as an interpretation of TPS (Toyota Production System) principles. Since then the developing trend has aroused a lot of interest among both theorists and practitioners in a wide range of sectors and deeply in the discipline of operations management. In recent years lean management concept has changed from a simple set of practices to the complexity of an entire lean production system. So an increasing amount of publications in the sphere of lean management only signify the expanded role of this practice.
Despite the fact that there are numerous examples of successful lean management implementation, Russian manufacturing companies paid their attention to this concept only a decade ago. Today in conditions of crisis when the issue of cost reduction becomes an urgent priority more and more companies are resorting to the principles and tools of Lean Management to eliminate waste and improve their production performance.
In Perm where a lot of different manufacturing companies are presented today there are only few companies which have been implementing or merely intend to implement lean production. So it has a great importance to demonstrate the rest what lean management is and how it can be used to improve company’s performance.

Problem Statement. The overall goal of this work will be an attempt to extend knowledge about the possibilities of improving production system using lean management principles and VSM on the example of Perm manufacturing company.
Within this broad purpose the following questions will be addressed:
What benefits can implementation of lean management provide to production system?
Why is it important to eliminate waste within the production processes? 
How can VSM help to improve production system?

Delimitations of the Study. According to the traditional interpretation of lean ideas there are a great number of elements that can help to improve the production system of a company. However, for practical reasons in the present investigation I do not set myself the aim to examine in all details the theoretical basis of lean management concept and all methods which it includes. I have chosen to emphasize the practical application of VSM in manufacturing companies. 
Moreover, though the implementation of lean production implies improvement within all processes in the organization, the present study will be limited by examining production process for only one product family of the particular company. Hence, all quantitative indicators of this process and recommendations for improving production system which will be developed on their basis may be inappropriate for other organizations.

Professional Significance. Primarily, the present research will be of the utmost importance for the management of investigated company, because it will allow the company rethink its operational strategy and reorganize its production processes in order to reduce the costs and provide maximum value to the customer. Moreover, future findings also may be extremely helpful for other manufacturing companies in Perm. The study which will be conducted may be used to better understand the principles and perspectives of lean management. Following the algorithm of research suggested may help them to reveal waste that their own company has and eliminate unnecessary steps of production processes.

Literature Review
The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature on lean management. Since lean production is a very broad concept which includes a great amount of different systems, methods and practices, in this work light will be shed only on the general ideas of lean management. Here the emphasis will be laid on application of VSM which is used for the analysis of the current state of production system and its further improvement.
Prior to describing VSM method, it is necessary to consider the main ideas of lean manufacturing. The general theoretical framework of the research has been derived from several works concerning holistic questions related to lean production. As it was mentioned above lean management concept was rooted in Toyota Production System (TPS), which was developed by CEO of Toyota Motor Company, Taiichi Ohno. According to Ohno (1998), the general purpose of TPS is to eliminate waste through quantity control, quality assurance, and respect for humanity.
He also identified seven main types of waste, which is also called muda in Japanese. Any activity in a process which does not add value to the customer is considered as waste. Ohno (1988) has included the following:
Overproduction (production exceeding the demand);
Transport (moving units of production when it is not being processed);
Waiting (people, equipment or product waits to be processed);
Inventory (storing products, intermediates, raw materials, etc.);
Motion (excessive movement of the people who operate the manufacturing facility);
Over Processing (steps of production process which do not add value to the product);
Defects (efforts required to inspect for and correct defects).
Later three more wastes have been added to the original set of Seven muda – space, waste of unused human talent and skills, and products that do not meet the customers’ demand or specification.
The latter was defined by Womack, James and Jones (2003). Although, it is difficult to overestimate the substantial contribution of Ohno’s work which has become a basis for many concepts and approaches and had enormous influence on the development of lean management, Womack et al. were those who have contributed to the widespread recognition of lean management practices.
In addition to Ohno’s ideas the researchers also defined the key principles of lean thinking (Womack et al., 2003):
Specify value – value should be clearly defined from the ultimate end customer perspective;
Create the value stream – identify all steps within the production process;
Create flow – by eliminating waste finished product should flow to the customer without any interruption;
Let the customer pull value – production processes should be organizes in compliance with the customer demand on the product;
Strive for perfection – the process of waste elimination should be continued until the perfect state is reached (all actions within the production process add value to the customer).
Womack et al. (1996) have deepened the understanding of lean production principles and explained the benefits of implementing this approach. According to them, eliminating unnecessary steps and actions, reorganizing labor involved in production process and providing continuous improvement can help to reduce the employees’ effort, tools, time, and overall costs. Moreover, lean production principles also help to make the process of production more flexible and responsive to customer needs. 
However, for applying lean management principles first of all it is necessary to analyze the production process to reveal waste within it and then in compliance with the results of this analysis redesign production system. So it is required to use a tool that helps to find out the stage of the process where value is not added and how this waste can be removed.
Value stream mapping (VSM) presents one of the best methods that allow to visualize the whole manufacturing system, identify apparent and hidden waste and their sources, and then redesign production system according to lean management principles (Rother and Shook, 1999). Moreover VSM provides a solid basis for the application of different lean techniques, such as 5S system, kanban, etc.
There are vast amount of studies that illustrates advantages of this technique. It is worthwhile to mention some major benefits that VSM provides in comparison with other mapping methods and tools in the field of production system design. Firstly, VSM approach represents both materials and information flow within the production system and makes it easier to understand their linkage (Braglia, Frosolinia and Zammoria, 2009). Secondly, VSM is more adapted to production system modeling and focus on enhancement on production processes level while other methods are more general and applied to the level of the whole company. Rother and Shook (1998) also highlighted that the main characteristics of VSM suit all the necessary requirements of a manufacturing redesign technique. Serrano, Ochoab and De Castroc (2009) emphasize that other methods and techniques dedicated to this subject “do not fulfill the same framework conditions as the VSM, or the same objectives or the same level or degree of completion of manufacturing system design” (p. 4415).
Despite the fact that many empirical researches have concluded that VSM is an effective tool to reveal and eliminate waste within the production processes (Carlos and Castroc, 2008) recent studies devoted to VSM application have mentioned some drawbacks that VSM has. 
Braglia et al. (2009) provided some important disadvantages of VSM. In the framework of VSM approach spatial structure of the facility layout is not taken into account that makes it difficult to understand how this factor can influence on wastes. Along with this, VSM cannot be effectively implemented in the company whose value streams consist of multiple ﬂows merging together or include a considerable amount of industrial parts and products. It is often required to use some other tools to map the production process. The researchers also noticed that VSM has serious limitation. VSM technique cannot provide a real vision of the variability problems within the investigated production process. However, the factor of variability has an impact on cycle time and many different indicators which play a significant role in application of lean management principles and production system development.
Serrano et al. (2009) has made an attempt to evaluate the real applicability of VSM to enhance production process. Based on the result of study conducted on the sample of six companies they have made a conclusion that VSM is a useful technique which helps to reduce costs and make company performance more efficient. However, he also emphasized that there is a big gap between the theory on the subject of VSM and the level of lean production application. It can be explained by apparent complexity of VSM application and implementing lean manufacturing. Moreover, Melton (2005) marked two problems of lean management application: «the perceived lack of tangible beneﬁts and the view that many business processes are already efficient». 
Despite the fact that there are a large number of studies on the implementation of lean management and the usage of VSM method to enhance the company’s production, some further research based on practical cases is needed to broaden understanding of the process of implementing this concept through VSM: its difficulties and possibilities.

Methods
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study giving special emphasis to the way in which the data will be obtained. Since VSM requires complex approach and applying many different techniques to appeal and eliminate waste within a manufacturing system and thus the methodology will take a define shape as the study is progressing.
Applying VSM technique intends a large number of data should be acquired. It will serve the purpose of the present inquiry several conventional methods can be used in data collecting. Primarily, in order to analyze the current state of the production system it is necessary to get information about time of each step within the production process. For this purpose observation and time-study can be applied. It is also needed to know the number of workers involved in the production, the duration of the work shift, changeover time, the amount of inventory and work-in-process, and how information is being transferred within the organization. To obtain this data the analysis of documents and interviews with managers will be carried out. 
Then the in-depth analysis of obtained results will be made in order to suggest measures for improvement of production system and design its future state. After the implementation of lean management principles comparative analysis also can be done to estimate the effect of lean production.

Results anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the method mentioned. It will be organized in terms of the specific questions posed in part I: it first will report the main ideas and aims of lean management implementation, it will then illustrate the significance of waste elimination and finally the application of VSM will be considered. All answers will be reinforced by the example of implementing lean management concept using VSM approach in the particular company in Perm. 
The presentation of the findings will use an appropriate organizational pattern. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. Some data will be presented in tables and schemes, all other results and suggested recommendation will be reported in the narrative text.
To provide more valid conclusions about the effect of lean management it is necessary to implement it within the whole company not only one production process. However, suggested algorithm of actions can help other companies to attempt to analyze their production system and the results which will be obtained can become a trigger for widespread implementation of lean management practice.

Conclusions
It appears from what has been discussed that implementation of lean management may significantly improve the production system of the company that is especially important in the conditions of crisis and increasing competition. However, many organizations do not fully understand all benefits that lean production may provide. Some of them suppose that their company is already effective enough and some of the organizations find the process of implementation complex. In this context VSM is considered to be very useful technique which can help companies to reveal all kind of waste and reorganize their production system in order to eliminate them. So the results which will be obtained will help to provide deeper understanding of lean management benefits and show how lean management tools can be used to improve production system.



