Introduction
Background. The importance of the research of particularly Perm market is connected with the fact that, according to the Perm Krai Ministry of agriculture, the Perm Krai market faces certain problems with the sales of the food, produced by the local farmers, while the experts assume that in the market the demand for these products is quite strong and, according to statistics collected by research company «Romir»,  58% of Russians are ready to buy organic food even if it is more expensive than non-organic one (Pelyavina, 2015; Zubareva, 2015).  I believe, the situation shows that both organic food producers and sellers lack awareness of who their buyers are, what they need and what problems they have. Besides, I am planning to establish a company on this market, that is why I need to realize the requirements of my potential customers in order to create a convenient resource which will be in demand.

Problem Statement.  This research is designed to determine the habits and preferences of people who buy organic food in Perm. Moreover, one of the attributes of Perm market is the lack of availability of adequate information about customers, their sociodemographic characteristics and preferences. This fact sets an extra practical task for a researcher – the detection of organic food buyers’ sociodemographic characteristics which later can serve as a basis for customer segmentation.

Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the immediate aims are to explore customer preferences towards organic products and to reveal customers’ «pains» concerning the process of buying such products. This view is considered as currently significant for the process of new product development because the process of customer development helps to understand the customer better and set priorities for further analysis. Moreover, the significance of process of customer development also is confirmed by statistics. For instance, according to data collected by analytical agency «CB - insights » the most common reason (42%) of start-up’s failure is the absence of demand for innovative products (The Top 20 Reasons Startups Fail, 2014). The necessity of involving customers into the innovative product’s design is proved by the research findings described in the article «Creating Major Innovations with Customers: Insights from Small Young Technology Firms». This article focuses on the six innovations suggested by small young IT companies. The research has shown that the three companies that had taken an unorthodox approach and had attracted customers at all the five directions of the design process succeeded in launching the innovative products, whereas the businesses with an orthodox approach to a New Product Development (NPD) failed (Covielo & Joseph, 2012). 

Delimitations Of the Study. The notion of «customer development» is one of the major terms in the concept of «Lean startup» which was offered by the American entrepreneur Steve Blank. This methodology is a customer-oriented approach to the development of innovative projects. The aim of the first stage of this methodology is detecting customers’ «pains» and preferences which will serve as a basis for further business model construction. It is worth mentioning that customer development is an iterative process, i.e. it is repeated at every stage of the project lifecycle (Blank, 2013). However, this study will concentrate only on stage one of customer development called problem-solution fit. At this stage it is expected to determine whether an innovative product is viable before the start of its development by identifying consumer preferences, as well as the problems, which consumers face when buying organic food. By the innovative product we mean the Internet resource, which is used for promotion and sale of organic food produced by Perm farmers to final customers. In addition, it is worth mentioning that this study will be carried out exclusively on Perm market of organic food.

Literature Review
Customer development methodology, proposed by the American entrepreneur Steve Blank, was developed in the late 1990s. This methodology is completely opposite to the traditional product-oriented approach to New Product development process, because it supposes the development of a product with real customer needs.
The application of this methodology allows researchers to test the viability of the product with minimum costs before the beginning of the development process. Steve Blank distinguishes four stages of customer development process which are: customer discovery, customer validation, customer creation and company building. The process of customer development is outlined in the figure below (Figure 1; Cooper & Vlaskovits, 2010, p.18).
The process is similar to a scientific method:
Firstly, a phenomenon is observed and described.
Then, a causal hypothesis which can explain the phenomenon is formulated.
Subsequently, the hypothesis is used to predict the results of new observations.
Finally, based on experimental tests prediction performance is measured.
Let us consider each of the aforementioned stages.
Customer discovery is a search of a client, who faced problems which you product. This stage involves testing the hypothesis that the product solves real problems for a particular group of users.
Customer validation is a confirmation of the client, which is expressed in the verification of a business model and search for a match between the product and the market. This step is aimed at testing this hypothesis: The market is saleable and large enough for a viable business to be built. 
Customer creation is scaling of the product. The hypothesis which is tested during this stage is whether the business is scalable via repeatable sales and marketing roadmap.
Company building is scaling of the business. This stage supposes testing the hypothesis if the company departments and operational processes are aimed at supporting scale.
Therefore, customer development is a cyclic process which is determined by following the stages of building, measuring, learning (Blank, 2013; Cooper & Vlaskovits, 2010). 
However, this methodology is not unique and Steve Blank was not the first researcher who emphasized the importance and benefits of a client-oriented approach in the new product development process.
Let us consider the most frequent methodology «Quality Function Deployment», proposed in 1966 by the Japanese planning specialist Yoji Akao. This technique, also takes into account consumer preferences both in new product development and in improving the existing one. The main tool of QFD method is the table called a "house of quality" (Figure 2; House of Quality Matrix, 2008). «House of quality» shows the relationship between the actual quality characteristics (customer requirements) and adjunct parameters (product requirements) as well as a comparison with substitutes, proposed by competitors.
However, to my mind, this methodology is more applicable for industrial production, rather than IT-startups as the main objectives of this technique is to identify the differences between existing standards and consumer preferences, as well as the transformation of the latter the technical requirements for the production of some goods. It should be noted that this technique has not become dominant among other methods directions client-oriented approach to the creation of a new product (Tolstikova, 2015).
However, most scientific articles describe techniques, which are more similar in purpose to the method developed by Steve Blank than «Quality Function Deployment». The list of techniques, which involve customers at different stages of new product development process, and authors of articles describing these techniques, and authors of articles describing these techniques, and year of publication are presented in the table below.
Alam consider user involvement to be more intense at the first stage of a project development. According to his method the later stages include test marketing and commercialization. According to Alam, the objective of the method is sixfold, i.g. rapid diffusion, decreased time-to-market. The method was tasted in 12 case programs, 48 new service projects and 46 in-depth interviews (Alam, 2002). 
Andersen and Crocca's method is based on co-development, which means that a company and its customers test a new technology together. The main focus of this method is that the entrepreneur and his clients collaborate around the use ot the new technology which enhances the work practice of both. But this method can be applied to software development at the stage of its design (Andersen & Crocca, 1993). 
Gustafsson et al. invented the method of observation of customers in real environment. This method was used by Scandinavian Airlines when they developed a number of innovations to improve a holistic travel experience, which focused on individual customer needs during the process of flying. The effectiveness of method was proved empirically via a case study research (Gustafsson et al., 1999).
Leonard and Rayport developed the emphatic design method, which is a supporting technique of customer involvement. They suggest that a process, consisting of 5 steps should be applied:
Observing customers;
Capturing data;
Analysis and reflection;
Brainstorming solutions;
Developing prototypes.
The method is universal and is applied to various industries (Leonard & Rayport, 1997).
The application of Olson and Bakke's Lead-user method in electronics industry in Australia and IT-industry in Norway increased the profitability of the companies. Despite the fact that the companies faced with time pressure personnel turnover and other negative factors, they continued to operate successfully (Olson & Bakke, 2001). 
Pitta and Franzak invented the consumer involvement method, which gives the opportunity to learn consumers’ wants thoroughly. The key to success, according to the researchers, is to involve the consumer at every stage of a product development. The consumer input can help entrepreneurs to differentiate between successful and unsuccessful products (Pitta & Franzak, 1996). 
However, this paper supposes the use of customer development methodology for several reasons. Firstly, this method was adapted to IT-projects, for example, this technique involves the use of the approach of agile software development. Furthermore, this method is the least resource-consuming and it allows to test the hypothesis on a real market, using MVP. Finally, this technique was actually applied in practice in the majority of successful start-ups that participated in start-up accelerator of Russian Internet Initiatives Development Fund.

Methods
In the framework of the current study it is expected to use such research methods as semi-formal survey, focused interview and analysis of secondary sources.
The application of this set of methods is appropriate only at the first stage of the customer development process, i.e. the stage of the assessment of an idea viability and its practicability. 
The necessity of conducting a semi-formal survey is justified by the fact that this method will allow us to gain the information about sociodemographic characteristics of organic food buyers in Perm krai. As mentioned above, one of the peculiarities of Perm market is the lack of publicly available information about customers, their age, gender, preferences, etc. Therefore, the data received via the semi-formal survey will serve as a basis for further customer segmentation of the organic food market in Perm krai, as well as give an idea of the problems which customers face when they are buying organic food. The potential respondents of the survey will be the customers of specialized organic food stores. It will guarantee minimum data offset. Besides, the main criterium for the respondents’ selection will be the fact of organic food purchase. To provide a representative sample its size should be at least 400 people, because the volume of general totality exceeds 100000 (Kudrinskaya, 2010). The thesis about the general totality size is based on the results of all-Russia survey conducted by research company «Romir», which show that 58% of Russians are ready to buy organic food even if it costs more than «conventional» one. This percentage for Perm market equals approximately 601150 people (Population of Perm krai, 2015; Zubareva, 2015). 
In this study, interviewing the representatives of the selected customer segments plays a significant role because it is expected to help understand the customers’ «pains» and motives related to organic food purchase, as well as get a feedback about the solution proposed to them. In other words, the data gained as a result of the focused interview will allow a start upper to assess their product's or service's viability already at the stage of its development and to save time and other resources as the process of a final product alteration is not always possible and is quite resource-intensive 
However, the analysis of secondary sources of information on the topic, helps us to understand the main trends that exist in Perm market of organic food. Moreover, it also assists us to identify possible features of the market, in order to increase the effectiveness of other methods of research. Secondary sources, analyzed within this study, include:
- data, collected by territorial bodies (branches) of the Federal State Statistics Service;
- articles in periodicals related to the state of both Perm and Russian market;
- research findings connected with the Russian market of organic food.

Results Anticipated
The anticipated results of this research can be divided into 3 groups: theoretical, methodological and practical. Let us discuss each of them in detail.
The theoretical results of this observation will be the data derived from the analysis and systematization of the literature on customer involvement in the process of New Product Development (NPD). Such results provide a basis for further analysis.
However, the practical results of this study are of primary importance, as they will be of practical use in the process of creating a business model of a real project. These include the implementation of segmentation based on sociodemographic characteristics of respondents. Furthermore, as a result of this study it is expected to detect customers’ incentives for buying organic food and their «pains» which later can contribute into formation of a project business model. 
The importance of methodological results of the study is also great because the research program might allow scientists to save time and resources when conducting for the research in the context of Perm market. It is worth mentioning that the research tools used in the framework of the current work might be applied at the initial stage of customer development process not only on this market but also on others. 

Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. The primary objective of this study is to identify the preferences of Perm consumers towards organic food, which is produced by local farmers. The research is topical because the definition of consumer preferences and «pains» and its further interpretation is essential for the successful launching of the innovative project. This fact is confirmed by the results of numerous investigations identified within literature review on the question. However, a set of methods which is used in this study is non-universal because the use of such methods is acceptable only within the first stage of customer development process. Besides, the results of the research will provide a basis for further research not only in terms of customer development but other project activities.