Introduction
Background.   
Optimization of the process is a fragmentary, successive improvement of business processes. In papers by scientists, considering optimization, the main principle is simplification of business processes due to deliverance of limitations. Process approach gained especial popularity in investigations about designing of business processes. It is an approach which focuses on allocation and improvement of processes. Processing approach’s followers claim that continuity, consistency and rationality are very important for this method. Also the idea about prevention and detection of defects can be saw in articles on this subject. However, some of the researchers think that optimization takes into account too narrow area and oppose against it reengineering. Reengineering – radical, abrupt changes of business processes, which stimulates sharp increase such things as, for instance, profit and productivity. 
Optimization or reengineering, if they were made in a properly way, help to solve actual organization’s problems. Effective model of business process can bring a lot of benefit to enterprise. For example, it is one of the main tools for reducing costs and production time in organization. Also company improves its business processes in cases when they need to reduce the number of management errors, to take urgent measures to resolve the crisis etc. 

Problem Statement.
I aim to develop guidelines to improve business processes. And this can be done with help of step-by-step analysis, identify weaknesses and opportunities to improve them. For that aim I need to:
Create a model of a business process.
Analyze it, identify the “bottlenecks”.
Suggest some set of actions for improvement business process. 

Delimitations of the Study.  
The delimitation of the study is business process in company. Also it involves features of their construction and reorganization for achievement better results. In our times we have many different standards and software for designing of Company’s Business Processes, because procedure of analysis and improvement is quite complicated. Business process is a consistent set of actions, which’s final aim, is producing goods and services or its individual components. Some of enterprises try to make and implement their own business processes models; others try to use existing analysis and improvements models. 

Literature Review
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. The notion of business process is relatively new, and researchers are working for deepening and widening of the general field of the science. In this dramatically evolving sphere most of contemporary doctrines focus upon the practical side of the issue. 
The actual history of this branch of science is traced to the works by Japanese scholars. Those studies consider business process as a system, which is always changing. According to this theory, the main objective of the manager is control and direction of these changes in the desired way. One of the most common methods, which come from Japan, is a Kaizen philosophy. The key components of a kaizen system are:
Focus on process, not on result. 
Using statistic data. (It means that manager makes decisions based on real facts).
Using support cycles for the current level of activity and changes. (Masaaki, 2005).
These efforts are much needed but destined to fall short unless they address involvement of employees. There is no self-discipline without involvement in the work process. In turn, lack of self-discipline provokes an increase in the number of losses.  A significant contribution to implementation and expansion has made Toyota Company. The Toyota Production System is known for kaizen, where all line personnel are expected to stop their moving production line in case of any abnormality and, along with their supervisor, suggest an improvement to resolve the abnormality which may initiate a kaizen.( Layker, 2008).
Another way to improve business processes, also offered by Japanese scientists, is 5S methodology. It is a workplace organization method, which is based on five key points:
Sort (division things to necessary and unnecessary and then liquidation the latter).
Set (arrange necessary items so they can be easily selected for use).
Shine (it does not mean shine in a usual sense; it means to keep workplace clean, safe and etc.)
Standardize (to keep the right side, these efforts are much needed for the first three).
Sustain (employees would use to keep their workplace in a good trim; it is a kind of self-discipline, which was mentioned above). (Grovom,2013).
The most popular methodology of 5S implementing is step-by-step procedure, which makes every point of the system became a rigorous technique for employees. Scientists, who are adhering to this theory, claim that within the framework suggested production became low-cost and successful. 
To consider the subject in a broader view, we can bear upon the most elementary fundamentals of processes improvement. Kaizen, 5S and etc. are components of methodology, called Just in time. This issue is repeatedly discussed and receives wide support. This conception is one of the possible ways to improve business processes due to reduction the number of stocks. The rationale for the “Just in time” approach is that this methodology accounts for batch size, time for setting operations, for waiting and working for reducing it. But a focus on decrease the amount of supply seems to miss some vital points, as reduced possibilities to fix the defect (we need to stop all production for it); production strongly depends on the vendor; company has enough capacity to meet demand increased sharply. 
Western scientists consider the issue of analysis and improvement of business processes too. Companies needed to improve customer service, cut operational costs, and become world-class competitors etc. and to improve their business process. This issue has been analyzed and discussed in the works of a number theorists and intellectuals. Michael Hammer was the founder of theory about Business process reengineering and made a major contribution to the theory examination. He advocated the idea that the major challenge for managers is to obliterate forms of work that do not add value. The problem has been subjected to scrutiny and the approach offered by Hammer has undergone some reconsidering. As studies are progressing the methodology has taken a definite sharp and became business process reengineering. It is a rethinking and radical redesign of company’s business processes to achieve improvements measures of production, such as cost, service, and quality. Reengineering carried out in two stages:
Determining the ideal type of business process.
Determining the best way to transfer existing business processes in an ideal (way would take into account money, time, resources, etc. of the company).( Quiring, 2008).
Let me give a more detailed illustration - within the framework suggested we can see some factors which are important for successful implementation of business processes reengineering:
Required business analysis.
Effective IT infrastructure.
Effective change management.
Continuous improvement.
These efforts are much needed but destined to fall short unless they address some details, which claim that business processes reengineering methodology is not devoid of some serious drawbacks. For instance, many companies used reengineering as an excuse, to downsizing; for that reason, reengineering earned a reputation for being synonymous with layoffs. (Hevesi, 2011). another factor challenged against reengineering approach is that reengineering requires starting the process of processes improvement with a "clean slate," totally ignore current situation.  
Developments of decisive and immediate consequence now occur; the issues are many and actually have achieved a kind of urgency in our times. That is why the methods mentioned above to a certain extent is an evolving ones. The problem analysis and improvement company’s business processes has not received all the attention it deserves yet, moreover, nowadays economic situation urges scholars to develop, modify and systematize current theories. 

Methodology
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out this study. There are standardized, time tested methodologies and tools, which help to explore the enterprise, describe a model and improve company’s business processes. Essentially, the methodology is when the researcher had any algorithm that can achieve the desired result. Methods are effective only if it brings results in accordance with the goals and objectives. Each object and connections are characterized by a number of parameters that reflect their specific characteristics; it can be such features as number of object, name, duration of the functions description, lead time, the cost and others. 
One of the most popular conceptions for constructing business processes is ARIS (Architecture of Integrated Information Systems). This method has two main advantages:
It allows to choose methods and integrate them basing on the main features of the process. 
It is suitable for complex projects managing, because it includes built-in procedures for the development of processes. (Sheer, 2000)
ARIS methodology makes it possible to view the organization from different perspectives - in terms of organization, control structures, and many others. Furthermore, this method allows using simulation results many times - accumulated corporate knowledges about organization’s business processes can be a basis for developing recommendations for improvement.
Another part of investigation is improvement of company’s business processes. For that aim will be convenient to use DMAIC approach. It is an improving business processes by consistent problem solving. DMAIC consists from five parts
Define. 
On this step I could make a clear vision of business problems, goals, and potential recourses. The main tool on this stage is process charter document. Determinants on this stage are problem, processes’ boundaries and scope, targets, etc.
Measure.
The aim of this step is to collect date, which will be useful in establishing baselines for improving. On this stage would be done such things as identifying the gap between current and required performance; assess the measurement system; establishing a high level process flow baseline.
Analyze.
My target is to identify and select reason to eliminate. It will be done with such tools as fishbone diagram, Pareto diagram, checklists. 
Improve.
Identifying, testing and implementing of solution to the problem, using Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle for testing solutions and failure mode and effects analysis for anticipating any avoidable risks. One more important thing on this stage is to create a detailed implementation plan, because it directly related with the problem statement of the study - to develop guidelines to improve business processes.
Control. 
It is monitoring the improvements to keep situation as successful as it became. The aim of study does not require control. (Kotler, Berger, 2012).

Results Anticipated
This part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. One of the tasks set in this connection is evaluation of the contribution which brings studied business process. Also, I suppose to detect the problems of business process, so called “bottlenecks”. Finally, the main anticipated result, organized in terms of research question mentioned above, is to construct business processes’ improved model and to offer some ideas about how this model can be adopted into company’s real working process, what action would be done. 

Conclusions
My study will bring the following points to the foreground. The idea about analyzing of business processes and their improvement came from Japan. Kaizen philosophy is a common method of raising the efficiency of business processes. Many companies have successful experience of its implementation, but it requires special attention to adaptation to Russian conditions. An additional way to improve business processes – a step-by-step procedure of workplace organization, system 5S. Also we have a western approach too. It represents the original state of affairs, to make improvements it project the desired status.  Thus, there are two opposite approaches. The former (Japanese) claim that control and direction of changes are performed at all levels of business processes; and the main condition is regularity. The latter (Western approach) sustain the idea about expediency of working with fairly large processes of the upper or middle level, because only the changes at these levels are able to give a great positive effect. According to western point of view, local optimization is considered not worthy of serious attention. 
Using the results of the study, I intend to demonstrate what kind of problems exists in company’s business process and what set of actions could better serve the purpose. 
Analysis of business processes conducted in companies, allows making business process’s optimization or reorganization for improving operational efficiency and enhancing its competitiveness. Furthermore, in our time company would be prepared to quickly adjust to the changes in the markets, to lead innovations, introduce new technologies and approaches in their work.