Introduction
Marketing is an important in the existence of every company irrespective of the industry it finds itself. The concept of marketing has been around in one form or another. Since the day when humans first started trading, marketing was there. However, the methods of marketing have changed rapidly with many improvements. Lately businesses have become a lot more efficient at informing the public and getting their marketing messages to target markets.
In general, the concept of marketing is aimed at targeting an audience through a series of activities. Marketing creates awareness for a certain need in consumers. The activities involved in marketing are diverse, and from a marketing point of view they are classified as separate tools which results in benefit to business entities. In spite of the different marketing tools which are commonly used by companies, this study focuses on the usage of online marketing. 
Nowadays the Internet has reached the culmination point of its development in the world. The internet as a form of globalization covers more and more space fostering people’s convergence. Consequently, profitability of advertising platform in the internet rises. 

Background of the Study. Each business, depending on various factors (size, profitability, business sphere, target audience etc.) can be advertized on different platforms. The internet in turn provides a great variety of advertising instruments: partnership advertising, search engine advertising. Besides there is a large number of social media advert. 

Problem Statement. At the present time the problem of finding the most effective platform for each particular business still persists. The object of my research is represented by internet promotion instruments, and the subject – finding the most appropriate advertising platforms for any business in the internet.  In my research, I determine optimal instruments for various businesses basing on a certain agency. In other words, the aim of this paper is to define what advertising platform suits any particular business in the best way. 
Therefore, research tasks can be determined:
Find out the instruments implemented for marketing promotion
Define methods of instrument efficiency assessment in the internet advertising
Provide a thorough client analysis in the marketing company
Determine effective instruments for each of the company client
Build up recommendations and forecasts

Professional Significance. This research can help to form a kind of internet promotion instructions for a range of businesses in different spheres and size categories. For future researchers the paper can serve as a source of data for more accurate predictions on the market of internet-marketing.

Literature Review 
As Rodgers & Sheldon said, the Internet is one of the most significant marketing tools in the global marketplace, offering enormous potential for export businesses (Rodgers & Sheldon, 2002). Hamill (1997) suggests that the Internet can substantially improve communication with actual and potential international customers, suppliers and partners. The Internet generates a wealth of information on worldwide market trends and can be a very powerful promotion and sales tool. The Internet facilitates conducting business and supports promotion, information delivery, and export revenue growth (Aspelund & Moen, 2004).
Nowadays more and more companies utilize internet-marketing along with other instruments. In accordance with E.A. Petrik internet-marketing can be defined as a theory and organizational methodology of marketing activity in the internet (Petrik, 2004).
Internet marketing can be represented not only like an integral part of traditional marketing but like a self-sufficient formation. Internet marketing implements the same elements of marketing - 5P (product, price, promotion, people, place), but at the same time each element has its special features. It is important to understand that the Internet is not only a new distribution channel or marketing communications, but totally new market. 	
Internet’s unique features as a form of marketing instruments differs greatly from the characteristics of other traditional marketing instruments.  One of the most important sides of the internet environment is the hypermedia feature which is more effective in the process of information presenting and perception and drastically increases marketing abilities by creating a closer connection between producers and consumers. Internet role is not restricted by communicative functions, but it also encompasses broader possibilities like conducting transactions, bargaining and payment arrangements. All of this describes the Internet as a global electronic market.
Internet marketing includes all the existing marketing instruments in the Internet: SEA, SEM, SEO, SMO, SMM and so on. Before the literature will be reviewed, it is necessary to define the meanings of these notions. Ghose (2009) provides the following determinations.
SEA  (search media advertising) is the so-called contextual advertising, ad unit, which is visible to users in the pages of search results or in large thematic portals. 
SMO (social media optimization) this is kind of promotion is the same like SEO, but it is aimed at promotion in social networks by increasing the links weight into blogs, forums, communities, and so on. Such type is mainly connect with the work of a unique, interesting content and design of the site, its usability (user friendliness).
SEO (search engine optimization) is the process of getting traffic from the search results on search engines. 
SMM (social media marketing) represents goods and services promotion via new content publication in forums, blogs or communities.
SMM It also represents a constant nexus with the user as well as subconscious advertising of goods and services. This can happen accompanied by audio and video. F. Virin defines SMM as an interactive company presence in the social media, which utilize various mechanism of socialization (Virin, 2010).
SMM environment contains next platforms:
Social networks: Vkontakte, Odnoklassniki, Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn and so on.
Content communities: YouTube, Yandex Video, Instagram, Pinterest and others
Blogs: Twitter, Live Journal and so on.
Forums: 4PDA and others.
Nowadays with rapidly growing penetration of marketing tools in the Internet, the demand for metrics of their efficiency has also increased. For this reason, current activity of many researchers is aim at the development and further implementation of different metrics which will allow to assess returns from Internet promotions in relation to their costs.
To begin with, in order to accurately understand what the efficiency of Internet promotions means definitions of this notion should be regarded. Theorists understand it as an ability of the Internet marketing message to influence the target audience in the way which is anticipated by producers of goods and services with optimal level of investment (Kalaignanam et. al., 2015). Further, based on this description different concepts of the efficiency measurement can be introduced. As a rule, they are characterized by the coverage of marketing messages, the quality of associations generated in the mind of consumers and the degree of attention attractiveness derived from customer opinions about the particular advertisement (Pergelova et. al., 2008). 
At the same time, the efficiency of Internet marketing can be regarded through different perspectives depending on prevailing purposes pursued by the company. First of all, the economic performance is one of the most important factors taken into account when considering the effect of marketing program. Generally, managers evaluate the financial effect using the following formula of profitability (Moon, Kwon., 2011):
However, there is one significant problem in the application of this economic tool for revision of economic returns from the Internet marketing campaign. It often is not obvious what share of overall company’s profits was driven by the Internet advertising rather than other tools used to attract customers and boost sales. To deal with this problem companies usually conduct special surveys of their buyers to detect the most frequent channels from which purchasers have gotten know about the company offerings (Gillin, 2008).
The next metrics of the marketing program performance is psychological effect on consumers. The term of psychological efficiency is defined as the degree of advertisement influence on the consumer perceptions of products and services offered by the company and its overall image (Lohtia, et. al., 2005). In this sense, effective advertising campaign attracts customer attention, arouses interest of the target audience and persuades it to purchase a particular product. As for tracking psychological effects of marketing campaigns, they can be caught only through qualitative methods such as interview, focus groups, etc.
Along with aforementioned metrics of marketing promotions, which are used for almost all kinds of marketing campaigns, other indicators of Internet marketing efficiency inhered only in this sphere can be found. The most frequently used one is the ratio of CTR (click-through rate) to CPC (cost per click). Moreover, another crucial metrics of Internet advertising efficiency is the percentage of the target audience in the overall coverage of an advertisement. High value of this indicator means that company’s message achieves potential buyers and that it is more likely to contribute to company’s goals (Kim, 2010).
More than that, there are another large classification created by PricewaterhouseCoopers (2011), which includes 9 types of indicators to measure the effectiveness of online activity. Such items are used mostly for web-sites, however, it is possible to apply them for other on-line platforms.

Methodology
The paper implements a plenty of methods. The main approaches can be represented as follows: literature review, survey, interview and forecasting. 
It is worth to explain how each method contributes to the analysis in the paper. literature review allows to find what data are collected on the narrow topic and provide methods of advertising.
Survey represents one of the crucial ways in collecting data for the analysis. It also can be divided into two integral parts: agent-survey and client-survey. The first one can help us to understand major characteristics necessary for identifying the most appropriate advertising platforms for particular company. The latter one could reveal the clients’ attitude to advertising platforms in terms of their efficiency. This aspect needs a close study since a certain share of clients still considers the offline methods to be very effective – they pay much attention at good-looking web-site appearance rather than at its functional component.
Present research also uses interview as a source of evidence. We arrange a plenty of interviews with various agencies. The primary aim was to determine the key that are necessary in identifying appropriate company advertising platform.
Finally, the method «forecasting» will allow us to know the changes in firms’ advertising platform preferences depending on the prevailing trends within the advertising market.

Predicted outcomes 
After studying relevant literature and materials we have come up to certain preliminary results. Thus, we presume that complex promotion (such as SEO, SMM, SEA, blogs and forums) is more suitable for large companies. Whereas medium and small companies should prefer SMM, SEA, SEO if a firm has web-site. 

Limitations of research
Any paper represents certain limitations. This research contains time and quantitative restrictions since information about all the companies can not be fully gathered due to unavailability of some data. Then it is also scarce volume of literature on the presented topic. Finally, the study conducted in the certain geographical location and the major share of clients of the agency is situated on one geographical area, therefore obtained results could be acceptable only for a local firms. For other places, specific features of every location should be considered.

Conclusion
In conclusion I would like to address the main idea of my research again. Having the Internet, b2b & b2c business today is given a plenty of online instruments to use. The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that certain types of advertising platforms are appropriate only for certain kinds of businesses. During the work process we have solved the tasks stated earlier. The present research can be very helpful both for business and academia spheres in the nearest future.
