Introduction
Background. Lean manufacturing can be defined as a systematic method for achieving significant improvement in performance of the company thought the waste («Muda») elimitation of resources and time within a manufacturing system. At first principles of Lean production were evolved by Taiichi Ohno in Japanese automobile company Toyota in 1950s due to limited resources available in Japan. Later American scholars examined Asian practice and justified the theory from scientific standpoint. (Liker, 2004)  Nowadays Lean management arouses a lot of interest because its principles apply to nearly all business operations, from administration and product design to hardware production. Moreover the theory has gained a number of followers in Russia. Adopting of Federal Standard R 56020 – 2014 « Lean production. Fundamentals and vocabulary» proves this fact.

Problem Statement. There are a variety of internal and external factors which exert influence on the company. Sometimes it is very difficult to predict negative external factors, but we can control internal factors which lead to waste. The overall goal of the research is revealing the waste and elimitating it. The object of the investigation is manufacturing system and the subject is waste which arises during production. 
Analysis will be realized in several stages. Firstly, it will be examined both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. Then I will carry out analysis of current situation of production system in the company and assess company`s lean principles. After it I will reveal bottleneck in the system. Finally, I will work out recommendations which will allow to overcome the waste discovered.

Delimitations of the Study. There are a number of constraints to be considered. Implementation of Lean manufacturing merges production and personnel component. However according to the framework of the project the main interest will obviously be on production system, because the production of goods starts there. Consequently a field of study is our first delimitation. Also an investigation could be severely limited in the amount if information to be collected. This delimitation connects with a lack of information about the company, so-called confidential information. The other restrictions are: a specific of company`s activity, its size and type or product family analyzed. Delimitations discovered characterize the sphere of application results of the research.

Professional significance. Practical significance of waste eliminating consists in improvement of the whole organization. It seems extremely attractively to implement lean production. As we can see at Toyota example lean manufacturing helped reach higher quality of goods, lower rejection rate and manufacturing cycle, more rational distribution of resources, hence, it led to growth level of consumer satisfaction. As a result of implementation lean technologies a company may become more competitive and win additional market share. Moreover, this investigation could be helpful for Russian companies which are going to inject lean principles because it reflects specific of «typically Russian» behavior.

Definition of key terms. Considering from the perspective of consumer who acquires a product or services, «value» means process which adds a worth for a buyer. Which in terms of Taiichi Ohno means any action or process that a customer would not be willing to pay for. (Liker, 2004)  The other important terms for understanding is «waste» which includes «muda», «mura », «muri ».   «Waste» is a deviation from optimal position of resources. Traditional seven «Muda» in manufacturing include: overproduction, waste of over processing, waste of waiting, unnecessary transportation, excess of inventory, waste of unnecessary motion and production of defects. (Womack, 2003) «Mura » is a waste which is dealt with fluctuation of labor.  «Muri» is a waste which is connected with equipment and employee.   (Emilliani, 2007) The terms «value» and «waste» can be recognized as the key to understanding the conception of Lean production.

Literature Review
The building of Lean management conception started in the early 1900s.  Principles which were the basis of lean management were mentioned in works «Scientific Management» written by Frederick Winslow Taylor in 1911 and «My Life and Work» written by Henry Ford in 1922.  
However the conception of Lean Production rests on the basic principles which were worked out at the shop floor of the Toyota Company in the middle of the twentieth century. The model was described in papers of Taiichi Ohno and Shiego Shingo in detail. In his book « Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production» Taiichi Ohno (1988) portrayed the elaborating of the Toyota Production System (TPS) from its foundation in the early 1900s. The system was formed in the thirties through the Toyoda Sakichi merits, who introduced the principles of «jidoka» or in other words intellectual automation and a rule of «5 whys» that determined cause-and-effect relations between processes. In the period from 1932 to 1959 system «Kanban» and Lean manufacturing conception were added in the TPS by Taiichi Ohno.  At the same time Kiichiro Toyoda initiated implementation of «Just in time» system. In the 1950s the TPS was completed with 2 methods: «Single-Minute Exchange of Dies» (SMED) and «Poka-Yoke» or "mistake-proofing" by Shigeo Shingo. (Ohno, 1988) As a result Toyota Company increased its productivity, obtained incredible stability and quality of cars. (Liker, 2004) Nowadays Toyota is the largest Japan's automotive corporation.  It has taken the ninth place in «Fortune Global 500» in 2015. Every year the rating forms on the companies` revenue. In the 1960s the TPS became an accomplished and deep-laid conception. The great advantage of the system was its application for any type of business. Unfortunately in spite of its strength nobody knew about the conception outside the company. (Liker, 2004)
Nevertheless the system got a world-wide acknowledgment only in 1990s after a book «The machine that changed the world» written by Jones Womack, Daniel T. Jones, and Daniel Roos in the nineties of the twentieth century. The book was based the research of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Five-year study of automobile branch cost 5$ million. In the experiment conducted by scholars it was discovered that when the company uses lean management principles it needed less human efforts and less investment in tools for producing goods. (Liker, 2004) In comparison with Taiichi Ohno whose research was based on the Toyota Company, James Womack, Daniel T. Jones, and Daniel Roos presented a synthesis of the results performed in 1990s by the investigation of Automobile Industry Program. (Liker, 2004) Scholars argued that the successful implementation of lean methods did not require the Japanese cultural context and paid attention to the Japanese car manufactories in the North of America where the level of labor productivity was approximately equal to the parent company in Japan.
Due to various fluctuations company`s market position changes from time to time. New players are coming and organizations needs to stay ahead competition. In the end of twentieth century it was obvious that Lean manufacturing is a powerful system. However in the 1980s some organizations understood that the conception had several drawbacks for certain markets and realized that they needed a new ways to compete. The solution had came with a Quick Response Management (QRM) conception which was developed by professor Rajan Suri, the founder of the QRM center at the University of Wisconsin in the USA, and was published in his monograph: «Quick response manufacturing» (1998). (Suri, 1999) QRM is aimed at significant reducing the time expenditure at all stages of the production cycle and also operations in an office. QRM provides the improvement of processes by asking questions quite similar to techniques often employed in TPS. (Arun, 2010) Thus Lean Manufacturing and QRM have many ideas in common, for instance, continuous improvement.  However in particular, at a more operational level, these two conceptions are essentially different. 
Also Lean principles trace the development of the Theory of Constraints. In the early 1980s when America was adapting to TPS Eliyahu M. Goldratt attempted to develop an opposite conception. He considered the manufactory process as a part of a larger process but he did it from the other perspective. (Dettmer, 2008) Goldratt (1986) argued that each production system had «leverage points». (Goldratt, Cox, 1986) According to the TOC was a critical area where the force could be employed for producing more goods. Goldratt also named «leverage points» as « constraints » and  believed that it could lead to positive or negative impact on the overall system depending on the range of changes. Goldratt described his theories in two books: «The Goal» (1986, 1992) and «The Haystack Syndrome» (1990). (Dettmer, 2008) 
The works on the lean manufacturing are abundant; however there are a numerous companies that advocate lean manufacturing in Russia. Some of them have been succeeded at implementation Lean in a production system on the basis of Toyota. The examples are: KamAZ, Sberbank, Russian Railways and others. There are also a few companies in Perm, the most famous are: Kamskiy Kabel, Novomet, Steclodom and others. 
The stages of implementing Lean Production in the company are investigated and presented in great detail by renowned scholars. Nevertheless some organizations do not succeed.  The investigation which was conducted in 2006-2008 by Kononova V. and Boltrukevich V. addressed the question of practical importance of lean technologies implementing in manufacturing companies. The findings of the research revealed that the majority of respondents used one or two instruments and during two years they did not notice the improvement and decided to stop implementation. (Никулина, Руденко, Коноваленко, 2014)
Fidelman G. (2009) thoroughly analyzed the failures of Russian companies in adapting lean technologies in the article "Why is lean so little?" First thing he mentioned is a genotype which emerges in perceptions, mindset of management and its role in the process of implementation. The second was undervaluation of the scope of improvements. The third was underestimating required time scale. (Фидельман, 2009) A wrong general goal of the company caused the problems mentioned. It should not be implementation of the conception of Lean manufacturing, but achievement of improvements and eliminating waste through principles of lean production. 
The analysis conducted gives a broader theoretical and empirical basis to the research. QRM and TOC theories beyond Lean manufacturing deepen and push forward the impact of Taiichi Ohno`s conception. Besides an empirical analysis helps to decrease the discrepancy between theory and reality.   Moreover it emphasizes the significance of the problem of «typically Russian» behavior which could intervene in lean principles implementation.

Methods
This part of the proposal extends a research methodology and instruments employed to eliminate waste in production system. In order to illustrate the production system of the company I have selected a rigorous technique Value Stream Mapping or briefly VSM. The instrument employed demonstrates characteristics of all processes and indicate those where occur waste. VSM also draws the actual product flow through the manufacturing resources and can emphasize the most important areas for improvement. (Abdulmalek, 2007) Moreover it presents quantitative parameters of waste and it helps to rank the necessity and level of optimization. 
The second stage of the analysis will be an attestation of the company. As a basis method of assessment has been chosen a practical guidance «How to assess your company's lean». This step-by-step procedure offers a ten-point measurement scale which helps to evaluate waste. As a result I will get current situation of the company in the form of cellular graph. 
After conducting an attestation I get several waste and identify its type. Then it is integral to select the most relevant instrument for eliminating waste. Conception of lean production includes a great variety of instruments. However it will be more rational to pitch on a few methods. Criteria for selecting an instrument could be costs, efficiency or payment return. (Wader, 2011) For example it could be Kanban system which is defined a system to control the logistical chain from a production point of view. (Gross, 2003) The other instrument is pull and push systems which ascertain the information direction in the production system. (Peter, 2002) Also a popular instrument is Just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing that means production on the basis of the consumer demand. (Hay, 1988) Likewise a widespread instrument is 5S (sort, set, scrub, Standardize, Sustain) which is a system of workplace organization. (Hirano, 1995) 

Results anticipated
The final part of the research is formulated in terms of issues stated in the first part and presents findings which are likely to be acquired using the methods mentioned.  The results anticipated are intended to be divided into 4 clusters. The first will be theoretical background. It presents critical analyses of lean management theory development. Theoretical basis will include key terms, methods and origin understanding of lean thinking, its subsequent modifications and contemporary development. The second cluster will be a research program. It will represent a toolset that contains quantitative and qualitative methods of detection and elimination of waist. The third cluster will be analytical. It will be generated on the data received in analysis and will portray the current company`s situation. Particular projects, actions and initiatives for improvement of existed production system will be offered in the fourth cluster. Plan of action should be in line with overall goal of the company therefore it is notable to take into account current aims and objectives of the organization. 

Conclusion
The baseline results of my investigation demonstrate the necessity to bring to the foreground the following objectives. First of all, it is important to form a background for investigation. Then I will analyze the production system. The first method employed is VSM analyses which will help to emphasize areas of weakness in manufacturing process. However results received by means of only one method could not give us the opportunity to find out all waste. The additional method written by Michael Wader will make the current situation clear. 
As a result of carried out research I suppose to emphasize «bottleneck» in the production system. Thereby it will reveal that the system needs optimization for its effectiveness increase. In order to eliminate waste it is necessary to define the type of waste and select relevant instruments according criteria employed. Then I will offer some recommendations for the company. Finally, I will try to recapitulate the findings and outline theoretical implications for further researches.