Introduction 
Background.
In the conditions of constantly growing and developing economy updating and renewing one’s knowledge and skills became of a high priority. Self-development and education for workers is extremely important not only in one particular business, but also in a lot of various related spheres. However traditional ways of learning and studying are becoming less demanded by both employees and employers. At present universities and colleges are considered more of theoretical knowledge, while businesses lack practical and applied data and experience. Moreover, as a rule it is stretched in time, which is unacceptable for an urgent matter of companies. Fortunately, business trainings come to replace universities and colleges as main providers of courses. They offer a new more practical oriented approach to studying as well as to teaching. Needless to say it helped business trainings to occupy a central place in continuous changes of any type of business. 
In spite of numerous attempts at analyzing the impact and efficiency of business trainings on workers’ performance, it is hardly possible to consider the existing theoretical basis on the topic as an appropriate one.  It still remains unevident which factors and in what degree influence the process and the outcomes of training. While the debate over the determinants of the phenomenon’s success in question remains popular, it reveals the need in additional research on the issue in study.

Problem statement.
The central purpose of the project is to deepen the understanding of the business trainings’ essence. This work will attempt to explore the general structure of business training regardless its topic and aims. Additionally the study will pay attention to business trainers themselves, who must pass on knowledge efficiently. Therefore the core question of this project can be defined the following way: 
Which factors determine the use and outcomes of business trainings? 

Delimitations of the study.
The study findings will be limited by several factors. First of all, most of the studies on issue were carried out in foreign countries which means they cannot be properly compared with Russian practices.
Secondly, there are few open trainings, since the vast majority of business trainings are conducted within the organization for its immediate employees. It means that there is not enough opportunity to observe a real training and the behavior of business trainer. Moreover, its outcomes become fully apparent through some period, which make them difficult to be measured.
And finally the limitations will be provided by the fact that the best trainers work only in the capital, so their work become unavailable to be investigated.

Professional significance.
The research will be of primary importance to business trainers both practicing and entry-level. It will provide with deeper understanding of business training activity from their point of view.
Speaking of a novelty of the study, it is significant to mention that this kind of activity is just getting its acknowledgement in Russia, while in more developed countries such as Germany, England and USA it is considered to be one of the most popular ways to educate employees. For this reason there is insufficient number of papers that study this issue in Russian Federation. Therefore I believe that the present research will contribute to the development of this form of activity in the country.  

Literature Review
For the purposes of current paper it is necessary to understand what is meant by “traditional education” and why business trainings differ from this phenomenon. In 1974 formal or traditional education was defined by       Coombs and Ahmed (1974) the following way: “Formal education is the highly institutionalized, chronologically graded and hierarchically structured “education system”, spanning lower primary school and the upper reaches of the university” (p.8). This definition raises one significant drawback of the system: it is hierarchy and highly institutionalized, which means formal education is reluctant to changes, while businesses need flexible and adaptable programs that will be able to change according to their needs. A definition for non-formal education was given as well: it is “any organized, systematic, educational activity carried on outside the formal system to provide selected types of learning to particular subgroups in the population” (Coombs and Ahmed, 1974, p.8).  As a rule business trainings as well as some other forms of educating can be referred to this very type of passing on and acquiring knowledge.
Experts admit that in conditions of rapidly developing economy for organizations it is a matter of great significance to obtain and reinforce competitive advantages. At the same time both entrepreneurs and managers tend to underestimate workers, treating them just like a renewable resource. But leading world companies like Google use another approach and try to convince others in its efficiency. They believe that “workforce is an important competitive advantage” (Bocean, 2013, p. 88) especially when it is well-trained and educated. What is more some enterprises see business trainings as “one of the most powerful strategic and tactical weapons open to business” (Maritz, Poggenpoel and Myburgh, 2009, p. 75) because they help to advance those professional skills that are already at a rather considerable level along with such qualities that were weak or even absent. 
To develop a profound approach to assessing the efficiency of business trainings it is necessary to have a look at the typical structure of this process. According to Maritz, Poggenpoel and Myburgh (2009) the basic structure of business training includes four stages:
Preparation or analysis of the present situation;
Defining the desirable results;
“Elucidating personal, extra-personal and group resources” (p. 81);
Implementation of the elaborated plan to achieve the goal set.
Widely known speaker and business trainer Brian Tracy in his book “Speak to Win: How to Present with Power in Any Situation” (2008) agrees that preparation and agreement on the outcomes required are key determinants of any successful speech and training. But he transforms the second part of the structure, proposed by Maritz, Poggenpoel and Myburgh (2009). He claims that the third stage is devoted to the process of business training itself, whereas the last phase concerns communication with participants after the training. This stage is usually called “after training maintenance” which means that business trainer should check whether the goals set were achieved (for example, how the productivity increased or how the services offered improved).
However, the results of business training also highly depend on a person who carries them out. Berggren and Söderlund (2011) state that effectiveness of a training directly depends on “trainer’s skills and qualification, his/her ability to use training techniques and methods” (p. 394). Another important determinant of any business training’s success, mentioned in this work, is trainer’s experience in the type of business for which he or she conducts a training. But not all of the professionals share this point of view. For example, Maritz, Poggenpoel and Myburgh (2009) assert that the trainer may not be the expert and have a lot of experience in the sphere. It is enough for him or her to have a brief understanding of business processes, while it is of great importance to be an expert in training and be able to use various training methods and techniques (Berggren and Söderlund, 2011).
These are not only professional qualities of a trainer that affect the process, his or her personal characteristics also have an impact. Maritz, Poggenpoel and Myburgh (2009) developed a model of qualities required for a successful business trainer. They interviewed practicing trainers and top managers of quickly developing companies about the characteristics in study. This resulted in a model of competences, which is presented below. 
1. Knowledge to be discovered:
Coaching process;
Leadership practice;
Management development;
Business acumen;
Training and development;
Individual and group behavior;
Diversity management;
2. Skills to be mastered:
Building relationships;
Emotional intelligence;
Communication talent;
Facilitation expertise;
Political intelligence;
Contextual intelligence;
Change management;
Capacity for flexibility;
3. Attitudes to be formed:
Authenticity;
Self-awareness;
Openness;
Honesty;
Ethical ways of being;
Empathy;
Trust;
Enthusiasm and passion;
Inspiration;
Integrity (p. 76).
This is an expanded and categorized model of the list of business trainers’ core competences composed by International Coach Federation (ICF). 
There are other experts that provide their own approaches to necessary qualities. For example, Kalargyrou and Woods (2011) emphasize the following: “teamwork, inspiration and motivation, creativity, mentoring, measuring and evaluating outcome, consistency in training and love and passion” (p. 362). As we can see, they correspond to those described above. So, one can say that in general scholars and expert share one standpoint on skills and qualities that a successful business trainer should possess and develop.
Since we are limited in space the literature review will stop there. The papers studied and information gathered is enough at the current stage of the project.

Methods 
In this part of the proposal I aim at examining in some detail the methods to be applied in the study. 
It goes without saying that analysing papers of both foreign and native scholars and experts is not enough for a proper project. Therefore I am intended to observe the process of business trainings. What is more I find it useful to study the work of experienced trainers as well as of those who had just started to perform in this sphere. This will allow me to understand which of the factors described in papers actually matter in the operation and whether they must present in the work of trainers no matter what their experience is. Another benefit I might get from examining work of trainers with different experience is understanding differences in their behavior based on their personal qualities.
Moreover, by observing real business trainings I will be able to define an optimal structure of trainings. It might also be of some use to study business trainings of a different length (starting from an hour and up to several days) in order to discover any difference from the viewpoint of structure and methods of passing on the information.
It will serve the purposes of the present inquiry to conduct a number of depth interviews with experienced and skilled business trainers. During the conversation it will be possible to learn their recommendations and so called “tips” for a successful training. It would be reasonable to ask them about their interpretation of “an efficient business training”, as they might come up with additional specific features and factors of their job that influence the process. 

Results anticipated 
All things considered I can state that the project will be an attempt to develop a more sufficient and advanced understanding of business trainings as a contemporary trend in education. From the trainings observed and conducted it is expected to define an optimal pattern for trainings. The results of the present research will also indicate which of the process features evolved by means of theoretical study will become apparent. And finally I assume it will be possible to discover personal qualities that help specialists to perform business trainings successfully and efficiently. 
Hence, I believe my contribution, if any, might have practical implication for those who in present days conduct business trainings as well as for those who plan to master this profession

Conclusion 
To conclude I would like to briefly summarize what has been done in the present project. 
The aim of the paper was to advance knowledge about business training process. The project has discussed key stages of the phenomenon in question. More over the qualities required for a successful business trainer were listed. Undoubtedly the data obtained from papers is of a great importance, nevertheless it is necessary to observe business trainings themselves in order to confirm existence of the particular features and characteristics. It would also be recommendable to apply received knowledge into the practice.