Introduction
Background
Currently world economic recession makes companies meet rigorous rivalry and face significant production and sales challenges. In order to survive crisis market players have to be flexible and prudent. Moreover, they must bargain for crucial changes in their operating policies and production technologies. 
Almost every company has inventories to meet customer requirements and supply the demand. However, inventory storage brings heavy costs. Therefore, it is vital to make adequate decisions on how much to store in order to minimize expenses and maximize returns. 
Now it is crucial to emphasize the main reasons for inventory necessity. Firstly, existence of stocks allows to smooth demand variability and adjust fluctuations to customers’ preferences. Secondly, continuous production can be performed only with inventory available. Thirdly, it helps to eliminate production delays caused by spare parts lack and lead time faults. Accordingly, all the stocks’ benefits described above enable companies to decrease total costs and take competitive advantage. Thus, the inventory management system dramatically affects the efficiency and prosperity of a company and may enable the overcoming of the crisis.

Problem statement
The central purpose of the study is to improve the existing inventory management system of the plant considered (the Perm Insulation Plant) by selecting the most appropriate one out of available systems. In order to reach the goal the following objectives must be set:
to conduct literature analysis of the topic;
to analyze warehouse’s documents of the plant; 
to examine finished goods and inventory nomenclature of the plant taken;
to select a set of methods in order to perform an adequate research;
to define existing inventory management systems and describe their peculiarities;
to apply the parameters of the plant to each system and choose the best one;
to elaborate recommendations for new inventory system implementation.

Practical significance
The practical significance of the research lies in the possibility to improve the current inventory management system of a company in order to reduce storage costs and cut the amount of unnecessary and money – consuming inventories. Consequently, companies will be able to improve their performance and take competitive advantage. 

Delimitations of the study
Firstly, I will examine inventory management systems and their parameters for manufacturing companies only. It means that a company must have not only finished goods stocks like distributors have, but stocks of raw materials and spare parts, too. 
Secondly, I am going to consider no other types of expenses, but storage ones, since this kind of costs is regarded as the most essential in inventory management. 
Finally, only stocks in the plant warehouse will be taken into account. It implies that inventories waiting for the production process outside the warehouse, for example, in the plant building itself will not be considered in calculations. 

Definitions of key terms
Inventory – “is a company’s raw materials, work in process, supplies used in operations, and finished goods” (Muller, 2003). Concepts “inventory” and “stock” will be used as interchangeably in the project.
Lead time – “the time for the product to be delivered from the supplier” (Baker, Rushton, 2010).
Safety stock – “the stock that is used to cover the unpredictable daily or weekly fluctuations in demand” (Baker, Rushton, 2010).
Inventory management system (IMS) – “methodology of overseeing and controlling of the ordering, storage and use of components that a company will use in the production of the items it will sell as well as the overseeing and controlling of quantities of finished products for sale” (Inventory management system, Business Dictionary, 2015).  

Literature Review
The issue of inventory management can be found in numerous publications. Almost every author puts forward a range of crucial questions associated with inventories, in particular:
what to buy;
where to buy;
how much to buy.
Making decisions on these questions depends on a variety of factors such as:
the type of  inventories, 
the character of demand,
the amount of costs, 
availability of  information management system and so on.  
Literature resources provide us with a number of inventory kinds, yet the common classification is presented by Miller (1975). He distinguishes three basic types of inventory:
Raw materials stock – is mainly used in production of end goods.
Work – in – process (WIP) stock – consists of materials that will be utilized further in the production.
Finished goods stock implies ready goods for sale.
It is noteworthy that the business area dramatically influences the stock types that the company possesses. Retailers and distribution companies usually operate with the third one, while manufacturers work with raw materials and WIP. 
Naddor (1966) proposed that the type of inventory determines the demand for it, as a consequence, he identified two demand patterns: independent and dependent. The former is applied to finished goods and influenced by external factors and circumstances beyond the control of a company’s management. The latter is valid for raw materials and WIP relying on the finish good demand. In order to satisfy independent demand a company must have appropriate goods in an adequate amount. A company facing dependent demand has to own proper items in adequate amount at proper time in order to accomplish production process. The nature of demand, therefore, leads to different concepts, formulae, and inventory management system, so, it results in existence of two approaches to inventory management. They were first introduced by Smith (1988) and are called replenishment and requirement approaches. 
Replenishment implies the forehanded filling of stocks by replacing them for those which has been used in the production process. It refers to independent demand, meanwhile dependent demand calls for requirement approach, which implies presence of stock only in case, when finished goods are required. Consequently, a company must have materials in order to manufacture goods for customers. 
The character of demand has become a key driver of inventory systems classification. The demand patterns discussed above led to the formation of four main inventory management systems, two of which are under the replenishment approach, whereas, the others are subject to the requirement approach. Over a considerable period the majority of scholars solely focused on the first two systems and considered the others as modifications of them. For example, scientific inventory management experts of the 70’s – 80’s such as Fukuda (1964), Banks (1967), Love (1979) admitted only two types of inventory systems. Scholars of the 90’s and up to now are protagonists of four – type classification. Bicheno (1991), Bernard (1999), Vrat (2006) consider all four systems  as independent and sufficient. I tend to believe that the latter approach seems to be more comprehensive and appropriate for current market circumstances. Therefore, I will examine four inventory systems in depth.
According to Vrat (2006) the fixed order quantity system and the system of a fixed interval between orders belong to the replenishment approach. The former system is based on the following assumptions:
the demand for finished goods is seasonal or chaotic;
the product itself is regarded as expensive;
the storage costs are high;
the level of safety stock is constant;
the order quantity is fixed.
Under this system the level of safety stock is continuously monitored. Whenever the level of inventory reaches the safety stock level also called as reorder point (ROP), a replenishment order of quantity established is placed. Safety stock is used during a lead time. The amount ordered makes the inventory full and return the stock level to the maximum.
The latter system of a fixed interval between orders is also called the Periodic Review Inventory system and works on several premises:
the stock level of the inventories is examined at equal intervals;
the order quantity varies each time;
the demand for finished products is stable;
the product itself  is regarded as cheap;
the storage costs are low;
the safety stock is absent.
The name of the system speaks for itself, thus, the period between orders is fixed. The order quantity is determined in accordance with the purpose of bringing the stock to the predetermined level. The order is placed when the time of regular control comes. It is vitally important that quantity ordered includes an allowance for the lead time as a consequence of safety stock lack. 
The group of inventory management systems under the requirement approach includes «minimum - maximum» and Just- In- Time (JIT) systems. 
The «minimum - maximum» stock level system is used under following conditions:
the demand for finished products is relatively stable;
the product itself  is regarded as over – priced and sometimes luxury (for example, Premium class cars);
the order quantity varies each time;
the safety stock is absent;
there is a possibility of shortage.
The system operates with two inventory levels: the maximum level and the minimum one, their status is monitored on a regular basis, moreover, the period is fixed. Nevertheless, if the stock levels are more than the minimum level at the time of the review, the requirement decision is deferred to the next review cycle, and no order is placed because the current stock is deemed to be adequate for the time being until the next review cycle. In case, when the stock level is less than minimum, it is time to order the proper quantity to raise the level to the maximum one. 
It is worthy of note that the reorder shift to the next review period can lead to shortage. Though the stock level is less than the minimum one, this system will not collapse due to low demand elasticity of consumers who are ready to wait for exclusive goods.  
The last inventory management system JIT claims exceeding attention of scholars and manufacturers due to its contradictory peculiarity – the absence of inventory. Hence, its second name is the “zero – inventory system” (Baker, Rushton, 2010, p. 161). It refers to the production of goods and subassemblies to meet exactly the customers’ demand in terms of time, quality, and quantity without keeping any inventory on hand. In other words, the production of an item needed starts exactly when a consumer has ordered it. However, this system requires some conditions to operate effectively. They are as follows:
the vendors are local and 100% reliable;
the presence of long – term agreement with vendors;
deconsolidation of orders for the purpose of delivery costs reduction.
Personally, I consider JIT system to be too idealized, and my opinion being proved by many scholars Muller (2003), Tan (2011) who believe that JIT system «is management philosophy rather than a technique that is practically unfeasible in reality» (Muller, 2003, p.137).

Methods
This part of the proposal will cover the methods used in conducting my research. The methodology set is going to contain a range of tools in order to obtain and analyze the data. 
First of all, a theoretical analysis will be performed. Within the analysis main inventory management systems will be identified. It will allow to determine the difference between them and establish basic determinants, which significantly influence each system. This kind of analysis also includes examination of the plant documents, which are concerned with the production process, commodity nomenclature, inventories and finished goods turnover.
Secondly, ABC- analysis is going to be applied to categorize inventories the plant owns. This approach is based on «Pareto’s Law» (Pareto, 1971) and enables to classify inventory items according to their transaction volume or value. Via the ABC – analysis the most cost-based, unprofitable and sealable inventory items are to be identified, as a consequence, the categories set will essentially affect the choice of the inventory system.  
Another method that I am going to use in the research is comparative analysis. Inventory management systems will be compared with each other in terms of demand for the inventories, the type of finished goods, costs and existence of safety stocks. Then, basic data of the plant considered will be applied to parameters of each system, calculated and main advantages and disadvantages are going to be determined. Therefore, the final decision on the most appropriate inventory system will be made. 
The last method used in the study is observation. Warehouse logistics and inventory replenishment are going to be observed objects. This process will help me to obtain factual information of the plant inventory state and identify problems that are not documented. I believe that the results of observation will be of great importance in order to give suggestions for further improvements. 

Results Anticipated
The results anticipated are intended to show the most suitable inventory management system for the plant considered. I assume that the system with the fixed period between orders could be appropriate for the plant for several reasons. Firstly, the goods of the plant are deemed to be unique to some extent due to the fact that it is one out of six Russian manufacturers producing insulation equipment, consequently, the demand is regarded as stable. Therefore, the amount of stocks can be planned for certain periods and examined from time to time. 
Moreover, insulators require no special conditions to be warehoused; hence, storage costs are quite moderate. In addition, the wholesale price for insulators is low, so, the finished goods can be called cheap. 
Furthermore, observation of the storage facilities could reveal some weaknesses associated with warehouse inefficient use. It will help to improve the inventory system chosen and make recommendations on its future implementation.
Finally, ABC- analysis will provide me with a structure of the inventories, in which, presumably, raw materials are the least cost – consuming, but the most demanded for finished goods, whereas additional spare parts are the most expensive for the plant considered, but are slow to sell.

Conclusion
To bring the project to a close I can state that success of a company directly depends on its inventory management system. Developing and improving the stock system allow manufacturers to decrease costs, optimize the production process, and consequently, increase service quality. 
In the framework of contemporary warehouse logistics four inventory systems exist. Thus, enterprisers can choose the best one in accordance with their own business specificity in order to be more competitive and stable. In particular, the system with a fixed period between orders is the most optimal one for the plant taken. 
I suppose that the practical significance of the research can be enriched by selection and further introduction of information management system, which is able to control and refine inventories automatically