I. INTRODUCTION
BACKGROUND of the STUDY. Within the present environment of increasingly aggressive competition, entrepreneurs have to be confident of success of their business plan. It is important to reveal the problems related to strategic planning in establishing a  new business. There is currently a growing interest in strategic analysis among aspiring entrepreneurs. The project will first consider the market analysis, then it will descry a new business model of co-working based on that analysis. Launching a business is a complex experience. It is also financially challenging to support individually the cost of opening a small company. Strategic planning is one of solutions to the problem. Besides, strategic planning is a basis for most management decisions.  There is currently the growing interest in strategic management. 

PROBLEM STATEMENT.  The general purpose of this study is to consider the importance of strategic analysis and its influence on a new business model of a co-working center.  I do not set myself the aim to explore in any depth the problem of complexity and description of creating a  strategic plan. The main purpose of the study is to create the concept of the co-working space, illustrated with concrete examples. The formulated present investigation covers the proposed research study that will examine in some depth the study on the basis of which a new business model of a co-working center in Perm city will be created. The main goals of this project are to analyze a regional market, make a business plan of a co-working center and consider its importance for Perm`s market. 

THE PROFESSIONAL SIGNIFICANCE. New original ideas, technologies, and solutions can be the basis for innovation in organizations or industry. In order to be creative, these new concepts should be extremely useful for workers. The appearance of this new business structure in the city will help to fill the gap on the market of freelance. The business plan, resulting from this research, will help to realize that idea. Thus, conducted research has a practical significance. 

DELIMITATIONS of the STUDY. The study findings will be limited by the area of  Perm region and  natural lack of information on the market. Moreover, every sample has its own errors. Thus, the research will based on the maximum available information. 

DEFINITIONS of the STUDY. Co-working is the space, which is shared by people coming from very different backgrounds: entrepreneurs, associations, artists, students or researches. 

II. LITERATURE REVIEW
A large body of literature on strategic analysis of co-working market provides a basis for the present study. This section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. 
The general theoretical framework of the research has been derived from several works concerning questions related to consideration of external market of any business structures. Michael E. Porter (1998) offered the new method of external analysis on his book “Competitive Strategy: Techniques for Analyzing Industries and Competitors”, which is called Five Forces Analysis by Porter. This model is particularly effective when considered as a whole segment of the market. Using this model, it is possible to  determine the way in which  a competitive advantage within the industry formed. Also the methods, which keep the profits in the long term period  and remain competitiveness. The essence of this concept is that there are five forces, each of which is a separate level of competitiveness of the product.
More precise problems of creating a  new business structure are  described in “Strategic Management and Business Policy” by Appo Rao (2009). The PESTEL analysis, which was offered by the author in this book, helps to make a qualitative analysis based on political, economic, socio-cultural, technological, environmental and legal aspects of the external environment of a company. 
It is important to consider the Key Factors of Success in addition to PESTEL and Porter`s analysis. Success often means profitability, but it can have a broader meaning in the work of public services and non-profit organizations. Key Factors of success are the common indicators for all the major industry organizations. Key Factors of Success can provide a good start to the strategic analysis of the environment for the industry.
One of the key works in the literature review for the proposed study is by A. Steyner (1975), which is called the analysis of the experience curve. As more employees are competent, the more efficiently they work, thereby increasing the volume of production. Thus, the sources of the experience curve effect - a combination of training, technology and economies of scale.
Experience Curve also plays an important role in the strategic explanation of structure of the industry, and closely associated with the life cycle of products. Its strategic importance lies in each stage of the product life cycle.
To explore the strategic implications, it is important to determine what stage of evolution reached the market. The common view is that at early stages of development of the industry there are more opportunities for the development of new and radical ideas. In the period of maturity, the company needs less investments. An important deviation is that  in the development of the strategy there are two consequences of the life cycle of the industry, which could have a significant impact on the industry.
It is important to consider the strategic outline. Strategic outline is kind of measure of how the company or the industry satisfy the consumers. The basic meaning of the concept is that you should not try to win the competition - you need to stop trying to overcome competitors. Also, the strategic outline used as a tool for planning, defining the "white spots" in the innovation processes of the company. 
Finally, the recent study by Michel Porter, in book I mentioned earlier, offers an analysis of Strategic Groups. Analysis of strategic groups is a sub-sectoral analysis that examines the different groups of competing firms, combined to similar competitive approaches and strategic positions. Analysis of strategic groups is closely related to the five competitive forces of Porter - they have all sorts of effects on the profitability of all strategic groups and their businesses.
The last few works will form the foundation for the future study within the relationships stated in the entrepreneur model. 
   
III. METHODOLOGY
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. It should be noted at the outset that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing.
The general research perspective is qualitative as it will primarily focus on analytic approaches. Analytical approaches will include different theories, which are based on consideration the market.  The choice will be made in favor of analytical approaches to study the external environment of the market. 
The application of those methods involves certain steps. Firstly, the hypothesis is formulated. Then, when the research is done, I will compare the results with the initial hypothesis. These results will be used as final results of the research part of the work. 

IV. SUMMARY of the RESULTS ANTICIPATED
The following part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. As stated in part 1, the study reported here will examine the necessity of creating a  new co-working business in Perm. 
The results will be reported accurately and objectively.  Some complex data will be presented in tables. Some nonlinear relationships will be shown in figures. All other results will be reported in the narrative text. The appendix will include some raw data that will be collected during the initial stage of the research.
This research attempts to answer the following questions:
Is there a  need in the co-working center in Perm?
Is it a good business idea to exist?
Will it bring money?
Why were there no co-working centers before?
The study will have some major theoretical implications, confirming and expanding the model, and, along with other similar studies, it may provide a basis for practical use of  an existing business plan in real life. 

CONCLUSION
In conclusion, I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. The results will show the necessity of creation the new business of co-working in Perm. The analysis of this study would help to answer the main questions of strategic management in research. The baseline results of the present research will indicate the connection between the strategic analysis of the new business and its influence on the future of that firm. The results of this research could be as a basic business plan for a new business.
