Introduction
This part of the project represents the background of the study, states the problem and points out the professional significance, also it delineates the delimitations of the study and introduces the definitions of the key terms.

Background. In conditions of active companies’ transition to the project-oriented management it becomes especially important to develop the competencies and gain practical experience in project management. One of the most momentous aspects of the managing any project is the early identification of the possible risks (Дьяченко, 2014). At present, scholars hold quite various doctrines about the importance of project risk management. While the discussion about the most efficient methods of managing project risk continues it should be mentioned that almost all conventional risk management processes have a similar framework.  Scientists converge in opinion that the risk management processes comprise of two main phases. The first phase is analytical by its nature and includes risk identification and assessment. The second phase is synthetic and consists of risk response (Olson and Wu, 2008). So, it becomes important to reveal the problem related with the detection, assessment and project risk response.
To solve such problems associated with the project risks companies developing a risk catalog. One of the most important challenge is to make it universal. It means that such kind of the risk catalog could be applied to homogeneous projects and displays the probability of the risk, assessed their impact and prescribed response measures (Титаренко, 2006).
To show possible ways for solving the problem I will make the literature review on methods and risk management activities of the project and develop the program of research. An expected result of this work will be a report, which is can become a standard for risk management project.

Problem statement. The main aim of the proposed study is to develop the program with the toolbox and methods of project risk management for the homogenous projects.
The following questions will be addressed within the established purpose:
What types of project risks exist and how do they influence the project?
What risk management techniques for the different stages of the project are known?
What activities to identify and respond to risks exist? How do they affect the predicted outcomes of the project?
What international standards in the risk management and project risk management are designed?
What qualitative and quantitative methods of risk assessments exist? How can they be applied in the context of standard project's risks?

Professional significance. The research will be of primary significance to project managers and risk managers. Each of them can use the findings to better handle the organizational projects and decrease the risk influence. Moreover, the research will contribute to the development of theoretical works concerning developing the risk catalog of particular branch. Also future research can include correlation of the toolbox with the specific industry risks.

Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be limited by the various of factors. Because of the specificity of risks, it is difficult to scale them. This is how limited application of the analysis results can be explained. Also commercial confidentiality can be a barrier and for this reason some risks may be unaccounted. 
Finally, there will be limitations concerning theoretical framework of the study. I take into account and analyze only project risk management literature. This is why no effort will be made to review the bulk of literature relating to risk management studies, which are not focused on the project management field. Due to the fact that the implementation and realization of the developed method and tool is beyond the scope of my research, it will not be referred to hereinafter, too.

Definitions of key terms. According to the 5th Edition of the PMBOK Guide, project risk is an indefinite condition that, if it occurs, has a positive or, more often, negative influence on one or more project objectives such as scope, timing, expenses, or quality. Project risk management is the identification, evaluation, and prioritization of project risks followed by coordinated using of resources to minimize and control the probability and consequences of the tragic events (Dittmer, 2013).

Literature Review
The following review will be developed through systematic way of studying an extensive literature on the subject. A considerable amount of valuable works on the topic of project management and risk management have been analyzed to provide a solid grounding for the empirical and theoretical bases to the research into project risk management. As the definition of project management is too general it seems appropriate to limit it by focusing on the corporate system of project management, particularly on the project risk management. In the last 10 years a lot of books, articles and international standards have been written to regulate different aspects of this sphere. 
The theoretical review starts off with the consideration of key concepts of project risk identification, assessment and respond processes. According to Barkley (2004) if the project fails the project team conclude that this collapse could have been avoided if the project risks were studied and analyzed a bit more, perhaps drilled a little deeper into the inherent impacts and probabilities. Such an approach assumes that risks and failures operate in a predictable way, that the factors that lead to risk events and failure can always be identified, catalogued, and controlled. The main problem is that different stakeholders have various opinion on the topic of failure and success. Sometimes the occurred risk caused a positive impact on the project. Because of one project’s failure is another project's success it is hard to identify the nature of risk. For this reason, the author classified risks as personal (because project risk is directly associated with personal risk) and organizational (if the identified risk was not successfully controlled, it should be posed as a company-wide decision, not a personal one).
Also there were some debates around the issue of risk versus uncertainty.  The measurable uncertainty, or risk proper, as the term usually used, is so far different from an unmeasurable one that it is not in effect an uncertainty at all. So the term uncertainty should be restricted in cases of the non-quantitative type (Hillson and , 2007). Moreover, this approach supports Barkley’s (2004) assumption about good risks and introduce the term “positive” risk which means opportunities. In addition, The Active Threat and Opportunity Management Methodology (The ATOM Methodology) which is described in the Hillson and  (2007) study offers a unique process that can be used to address both threats and opportunities, to identify and assess the project risks of the average projects. 
One more viewed method for project risk analysis is RIPRAN (RIsk PRoject ANalysis). Through the carrying out activities of the project implementation phase, and evaluation of potential positive risks in the particular phases the overall analysis of the project risks can be done. The RIPRAN method may be used in all the phases of the project (Lacko, 2009).
The whole process according to the RIPRAN method consists of 5 phases:
preparation of the risk analysis;
identification of the risk;
evaluation of the risk;
response to risk;
general assessment of risk.
However, this approach does not deal with the monitoring process of risks in a project. 
Despite the existence of a vast amount of literature on the topic of project risk management at the forefront anyway are international standards in this field. IS/ISO 31000:2009 and 5th Edition of the PMBOK Guide (2013) continue the topic of positive and negative risk existence, also determine known risks which are predicted based on the past experience on the similar projects and underline that every project can include some unknown risks which cannot be managed proactively. These standards also provide a useful information about analytical techniques that can be used during the process of identifying the project risks. Set the definition of risk probability and impact, perform options of plan project risk responses, qualitative and quantitative risk analysis processes, including information about the impacts, tools and techniques and outputs. What is more, the standards become the first source which underlines the necessity of controlling the known risks.
The last wellspring which was analyzed during the literature research disregards the fact that the uncertainty and risk is not the same as mentioned earlier, but nevertheless it brings clarity to the procedure of project risk identification and assessment. According to Dziadosz and Rejment (2015) the verification should be started from the simplest techniques using some qualitative variables and finished on the statistical method, which determines the type of used data.
The last works will form the foundation for the future study providing the general fund of required information to conduct productive research within my final qualifying work.

Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study. It should be noted at the outset that the methodology involved is to a certain extent an evolving one and will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing. 
The goal of the research will be achieved by the using of comprehensible analysis including qualitative and quantitative methods. The first step will be literature analysis on the topic of the investigation. Then questionnaire survey of project management department's workers, in-depth interview with the head of department and the analysis of international standards in the risk management field will be done. Thus, it will help me to determine the homogeneity of the projects in the company, which will be considered and to elicit information about the risks that exist in principle, and how they are usually detecting. The second step will be the preparation of a risk catalog – the list of all the project risks, which were obtained through the first step. Such catalog will take into account the probability of risks occurrence and their negative impact. The third step will involve qualitative and quantitative evaluation of each risk from a risk catalog. This will help to draw conclusions about the strength of risks and to devise measures to respond to the presented risks.

Results Anticipated
The following part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The result of the steps described above will be a report on the risks. On the basis of this report the risk management measures of homogeneous projects will be developed. Moreover, elaborated tools and methods of project risk management and methods elimination of risk consequences will be oriented on the activity of the certain company so, that in future after they will be tested it can become the Standard Enterprise Risk Management. 
The presentation of the results will use an appropriate pattern. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. Risk catalog and systematized information about the methods to respond to the risk will be presented in tables. All other results will be reported in the narrative text. The appendix will include an example of a questionnaire and interview guide.
As I expecting, the investigation may provide some useful basis for the practical activities. At the same time additional research considered as needed because of the narrow framework of the study since only one particular company in one branch will be considered.

Conclusion
Now it will be the last section of my research proposal. In my qualitative and quantitative investigation of the project risk management tools and methods various approaches to analyzing the risks and different criteria methods of identification and evaluation has been discussed. This project has regarded the approaches of Hillson and , Lacko’s RIPRAN method and two international standards in project risk management. Presently, I understand that despite the large amount of literature on the subject investigated the most complete and understandable information contained in international standards. During my research I was limited by the theoretical framework of the study. Using the earlier analysis results and additional justification of the specifics of risk management techniques, I want to develop a project risk management program which will include risk catalog and to form the toolbox according to the proposal events. In conclusion I will try to make some generalizations and to outline a theoretical background for future investigations. 



