Introduction
Background
Nowadays there is an increase of attention to the organizational culture due to its direct impact on the company’s performance. Great amount of researchers explored that certain types of corporate culture could enhance organizational processes and help not only to achieve required goals and objectives, but also obtain significant competitive advantages.
Each company has its own unique culture even though they may not have consciously tried to create it. It could be formed unconsciously and based on the preferences, beliefs and values of organization’s leaders, who direct and affect the organization. 
During the last two decades, the concept of corporate culture and its importance have got ahead compared to the first papers in this field. The many executives realized that sustainable development of the company is possible only in positive work environment. What is more, according to the statistics from New Century Financial Corporation, employees who are working in the organizations with flexible and successful culture produce better results. They are willing to make extra effort and remaining loyal to the company (What engages employees the most, 2006).

Problem statement 
The main purpose of the present research is to carry out a theoretical and practical analysis of corporate culture modeling considering its cultural elements. In order to achieve this goal, several objectives have been determined:
to review the theoretical literature and empirical research on this subject;
to highlight the concept, features and essential elements of organizational culture define the role of culture-shaping elements;
to characterize approaches to the management of organizational culture;
to consider and analyze the organization and identify key elements that influence its corporate culture;
to determine desired corporate culture;
to develop recommendations for corporate culture of the organization.

Delimitations of the study
During the research, some delimitations may be discovered. The main is that it is likely to be difficult to interview all members of the company and investigate the whole sample.

Professional significance 
More and more companies tend to increase their attention to the nature of organizational culture and attempt to create strong and cohesive culture, which has become an essential requirement for strategic development, productivity and efficient working process. The present research is strongly significant due to the fact that sometimes there is a discrepancy between the expected and actual work environment.    
Definitions of Key Terms 
Focal points – “is a solution that people will tend to use in the absence of communication, because it seems natural, special, or relevant to them”. (Focal points, Business Dictionary, 2015)

Literature Review
Organizational culture is an essential component of each company, it creates uniqueness, manifested in organizational policy. The concept of organizational culture was formulated in the early 1980s, when different researchers attempted to better understand the meaning of organization, organizational behavior, and people managing the organization. The definition of corporate culture has been defined in many ways by diverse researchers, however most commonly, Organizational culture is defined as a set of shared values, beliefs, norms, artifacts, and patterns of behavior that are used as a frame of references for the way one looks at, attempts to understand, and works within any organization. (Ott, 1989). 
An expert on corporate culture Ulrich Wefer characterized it as a crucial competitive factor. The strategy of the company and its culture are directly linked and complement to each other. This fact implies that organizational culture could impact the success of organizations and helps to achieve its goals and objectives.
The theoretical principles emphasize that organization is a complex system and that acompany should take into account not only the members of the organization but their beliefs, behaviors, values.
Charles Handy, an author and philosopher specializing in organizational behaviour classified organizations into four cultures, described as Power, Role, Task and People. 
In power culture, the head of the company dominates and has a strong influence on activity of employees. Such organizations have a strong competition among workers, simple structure, strict rules and traditions. This type of culture allows us to respond quickly to changing situations, make prompt decisions and organize their implementation. The main problem for this type of culture is the size of the organization, it operates effectively only for relatively small firms. The success of the company with the culture of power is entirely determined by the abilities and qualifications of the head of the organization. According to role culture, the regulations of employees’ right, duties and responsibilities are clearly defined and standardized to ensure effective existence for a long-term period. Thus, the effectiveness of the role of culture depends primarily on the rational division of work and responsibility. Role culture is applied in large corporations in a stable environment with a stable market and in state institutions. Hence, the problems of this culture are lack of flexibility and low susceptibility to innovations. The main objective of task culture is attention to successful performance of assigned tasks or projects. The performance of organizations with this type of culture is largely determined by the highly qualified workers. This culture is characterized by: a high degree of autonomy, assessment results, informal working relationships within the group, and mutual respect. The key element of person culture is an individual. Each member of the company is seen as valuable and more relevant than the organization itself. The purpose of these organizations is to help its members. The power in these companies is based on proximity to resources, professional skills, and ability to negotiate. Examples of the organizations with person culture are firms, small consulting firms, unions of journalists, or architects (Maslov, 2015).

Methods
It has already been mentioned, that sometimes there is mismatch between existing and expected corporate culture, thus I decide to investigate this issue. This part of the research introduces the methods that are going to be used.  In the research, I will diagnose the organizational culture in accordance with the model of focal points. It allows to determine the direction of the company and highlight its values. The identification of culture-shaping elements is based on Meyerson concept and indicates formal and informal relations in the company.
It is planned to conduct surveys, questionnaires and structured interviews in order to gain accurate data about the organizational culture. These methods will ensure necessary information to investigate the key elements of corporate culture. 
The next step connected with determination of required culture is based on expert evaluation. Finally, the data obtained will be analyzed and implemented in the organization. It is expected that the development of recommendations provided enables the company to choose optimal direction in this field and improve its work environment.	

Results Anticipated
This part of my study presents anticipated results as follows: first of all, I hope to elucidate that level of organizational culture has a strong connection with the performance of the company. Moreover, organizational culture of the company should be clearly formulated and match beliefs and vision of employees. Then, it is suggested that key elements that influence corporate culture of the organization will be identified. It is expected that the methodology used in the study will help to determined culture-shaping elements and elucidate how to form and support cohesive corporate culture in business activity. The findings of the study may be of considerable practical value to diverse companies solving the organizational problems. Besides, it is assumed that the conclusions of this research will enable the organization enhance its work environment and productivity of organization on the whole.

Conclusion
In general, organizational culture has multi-purpose orientation: it establishes and reinforces friendly relationship and interaction between employees and subdivisions, creates a favorable psychological climate in the organization, and also provides understanding of values in the company. Understanding organizational culture is a significant activity for companies, it helps employees to work toward the company goals. Moreover, it allows new staff member distinctly understand and accept existing goals and values. Finally, a strong culture gives each organization its own personal and unique style.