Introduction
Background of the Study. A minority of companies can boast of a strong brand. This is a serious error, since the consumer choice is directly linked to the perceived value of the purchase, which depends not only on the price of the product, but also on the company's image. Brand creates a tangible corporate identity. For this reason, company should focus on brand management.
Organic food is a new segment of the Russian market.  If before the goods were sold mainly in the food markets, now the culture of consumption changes. The growing popularity of healthy lifestyle raises the organic products segment to a new price level, from whence, an active development of  organic food brands starts. However, existent brands offer analogous product lines, so it is appropriate to create a company that offers an alternative range of products.

Problem Statement. The general purpose of the present work is to develop a strategy of creating and managing an organic food brand.  Therefore the main tasks are divided in two steps: brand development and elaboration of proposals regarding the brand’s strategy.
The process of creating the brand is divided into several steps:
a clear definition of the idea 
investigation of market and competitive environment
definition of company’s competitive advantages
creating an unique image and naming
development of a communication policy
releasing brand-new product to the market
Generally, the brand is an instrument for creating personification.(Keller. 2012) It can be achieved by a complex of following points:
effective new account development;
creating a sense of high quality;
increasing a level of consumer loyalty;
developing right brand identity (Aaker, 1966).
These elements are the assets of brand equity.  The brand’s development strategy is based on the arranging an unique plan of work with mentioned points.

Professional Significance. Speaking about a novelty of the study, it is necessary to note that the situation on the modern Russian market is indeterminate.  Given that organic food is a perspective segment, it is necessary to have a precise idea about the specifics of the industry. 
First of all, the present study has a practical significance, since it is the basis for the formation of a particular brand.
A number of practical hypotheses will be confirmed or refuted within the work:
the consumption of organic food grows rapidly;
the quality is a major determinant of choice in this segment;
the main problems of the sector relate to institutional barriers;
the available bid does not meet the demand in full;
the demand on the price of this product has a high level of elasticity.
However, the work has a theoretical importance. It raises the question of consumption features of Russian buyers, which is typically dropped by Western researchers. The theoretical hypotheses include following assumptions:
Western approach to brand management misses several features of the Russian market condition;
The general theory of branding can be used in all market segments.

Delimitations of the Study. In the present work I will pay attention to a premium segment of organic food market. Therefore, the results will not be suitable for medium and low price segments.

Literature Review 
A considerable amount of literature on brand management provides a basis for the present study. Since the notion “brand management” is extremely general, it is appropriate to reduce it by focusing on organic food branding in Russia.  In recent works numerous attempts have been made to adopt a theoretical basis to the research of local features of a consumer behavior.
This part observes both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. The literature using in this work is segregated into three blocks in order to answer the main questions of the study: brand development in general, specific of branding in organic food market, cultural characteristics of brand perception. 
Works of Kotler , Keller and  Aaker, Davis  were taken as the theoretical basis of the study. 
In a book “A Framework for Marketing Management” the author describes common notion of marketing management and allocates the basic foundation of strategic, tactical and managerial marketing (Kotler, Keller, 2011). A work “Marketing Management” written by Kotler and Keller gives contemporary practical examples of Kotler’s theory. The book details common notions and pays more attention to branding as an essential element of marketing. The authors define an idea of making brand as a necessity for differentiation. It is provided by creating an image of the company and brand awareness. Kotler and Keller evaluate brand awareness by a scale with two estimates: a consumer, who remembers the hint about brand and a consumer, who does not remember about it (Kotler, Keller,2012). This evaluation has been extended by Aaker. The scales of recognition/ clear remembrances and top of mind awareness/ brand name dominance have been introduced (Aaker, 1996). Moreover, Aaker redirects attention from marketing to the brand management as a stand-alone scientific branch. It is necessary to note the main issues addressed by the author, such as: an analysis of numerous methods to assess the market value of a brand, a comprehensive study of measures to promote brand portfolio, taking into account brand performed functions and roles, an analysis of the main brand building events. According to his point of view, brand management originates from creating a brand identity, which is the unique complex of brand association representing a mission and image of a brand. Aaker describes brand identity as a structure consisting of 12 variables which are distributed among 4 categories: brand as product, brand as organisation, brand as person and brand as symbol (Aaker, 1996). Companies combine certain of 12 variables in order to create an inimitable brand’s core and supplement it by additional values. 
Davis is another author, who investigates the brand as one of the main company’s assets. The study is based on the experience of becoming a successful brand that contains the analytical part. The author makes an attempt to outline internal mechanisms of creating strong brands. Davis describes how widely recognizable brands such as «Nestle», «Coca-Cola» and «Ford» have been positioned (Davis, 2000). 
More precise problem of brand management in specific segment is addressed by Jones, Clarke-Hill and Shears, who outline the development and the main features of  contemporary organic food market by discussing case studies of different market players, their pricing, supply and marketing issues (Jones, Clarke-Hill, Shears, 2001).
Davies, Titterington and Cochrane conduct a series of market observations, based on actual purchasing patterns.  The Author quantifies the extent of purchase of organic food and the consumer′s commitment. This study demonstrates that the consumer′s level of personal disposable income is a primary factor in organic food purchase (Davies, Titterington, Cochrane, 1995).
In addition to Davies’s research, Anselmsson investigates the consumers’ willingness to pay a price premium for foodstuff and defines what types of determinations can be employed for gaining a market share. He proves that quality, social image uniqueness and country origin play key roles in consumer’s decision making (Anselmsson, Bondesson, Johnasson, 2014).
In the case of accumulation, these researches allow to specify requirements to the potential brand, which will not be oriented on the Russian market because all investigations were taken in the Western Europe.
The investigations of cultural specifics are familiar for sociologists and psychologists, but this area is  by marketing specialists.
Lee and Ng trace the chronology of research in costumer psychology and present a survey of the empirical findings. Culture awareness is defined as an element of successful branding due to attitude for increasing a level of trust among potential consumers. Moreover, right chosen cultural variables provide a possibility for future extension of company’s geographical borders, whereas a mistake in this sphere can lead to a loss of brand core (Lee, Ng, 2015).
Awareness of the problems of creating and managing brands in the Russian business environment has led to the appearance a number of publications on this topic in recent years. 
Domnin directs attention to the methodology of brand explicate, management, expansion and development  over time. Most of the examples are taken from the Western market, but there are a number of examples of promoting domestic brands in the consumer markets (Domnin, 2002).
A suitable theoretical background is described in a work “Brand: Theory and Practice of Management” written by Golovleva. The author focuses on the process of creating and strategic managing a brand in the Russian market. In addition, a separate chapter is devoted to the consideration of  trends in Russian brand management practice (Golovleva, 2005).
A work, written by Rozhkov, Kismereshkin , systematizes information about branding and reveals technologies, which are increasingly implemented in brand-building multi-level system of  brand promotion, combining the operation of production, marketing and advertising , development of  trade channels It contains practical advice on the development and marketing of  Russian brands (Rozhkov, Kismereshkin,2004). 
On the whole, the foodstuff branding successfully develops everywhere, but the Russian market of organic food should be inquired curiously, before creating new brands. Therefore, the market and will be further examined in the project proposal.

Methods
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in accomplishing the study, giving a special emphasis to the analysis of the data collected.  It should be noted from the outset that the methodology employed is to some extern a developing one and will be shaped in the research process.
The goals of the research will be achieved by the application of qualitative and quantitative methods, particularly consumer survey and structured interviews are going to be employed. 
The consumer survey will be carried out directly in the place of food: large retail stores, specialize in healthy nutrition stores, grocery markets. Sample size will be at least 1,000 people, it should be sufficient, given that the general population is about 300000 people (Yadov, 2007).  The objective of the study is to identify consumer preferences and demand elasticity that will determine sales policy and allow to define effective marketing channels. Furthermore the results of survey will be used as a basis of making typological portraits of potential consumers. After that the representatives of appropriate consumer’s groups will be interviewed. It will be made for making the quantitative data more understandable and clarifying ulterior motives of consumption.
Also, interviews with representatives of companies operating in similar industries in neighboring regions will be conducted. Respondents will be taken from Yekaterinburg, Ufa and Tagil, since these regions are at the same level of economic development as Perm. In addition, there will be experts from St. Petersburg and Kazan, because the organic foodstuff is presented in these cities for a long time, hence their owners have an intimate knowledge of brand building and strategic development in this area. The qualitative method will outline more realistic situation in the market, including institutional, logistic and cultural restrictions. 

Results Anticipated
This part of the proposal reports on the results is likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. As stated in part 1, the aim of this work is to create a brand of organic food in Perm. The research of potential market will be made in order to investigate economical and cultural features of organic food consumption in Russia, since studies are not conducted because it is a relatively new market segment. A set of hypotheses are stated at the beginning of this work, which most probably are going to be proved. These hypotheses are about the increasing popularity of organic food in Russia and the consumers’ willingness to pay a higher price for high quality products. This segment of  the Russian consumer goods basket does not refer to the essential commodity and the price sensitivity of demand is really high. Moreover Russian consumption culture is differ from European and American.  While the hypotheses about amount and motives of consumption are disputable and might be rejected.
General supposition about the key elements of brand core and its supplements can be changed significantly, if the assumption about motives is incorrect.

Conclusion
In conclusion it is more reasonable to establish that branding is a challenging task. It requires the careful investigation of market , which could be provided by the consumer behavior research and the analysis of the competitive  environment .  The application of these instruments is especially important in a situation when the company is looking for niche in the insufficiently known market such as the Russian market of organic products. Despite the universality of the general theory of branding, the creator of the brand should take into account the cultural characteristics of the market and the specific features of the industry. This fact has been proven by empirical research in this area.
I am going to conduct a research focused on the upper price segment of the organic foodstuff market within this work.  This exploration will reflect the overall situation in the aforementioned market on the whole, and will form the basis for the development of a certain brand in particular. Finally, the plan will be formulated to create and develop the brand of organic products in Perm.