Introduction
Background. Our present day life is unthinkable without procurement. Procurement is one of the key economic and management notions. 
Procurement is the acquisition of goods or services at the best possible total cost of ownership, in the right quality and quantity, at the right time, in the right place and from the right source for the direct benefit or use of corporations, individuals, or even governments, generally via a contract. The primary concept of procurement is that advanced planning, scheduling, and group buying would result in cost savings, more efficient business operation, and therefore increased profitability. A procurement system is used to manage this process, providing turnaround time for invoices, tracking of total spending by commodity type, as well as financial commitments and cash flow management. The complete implementation of a procurement system usually results in significant changes to the existing business process, as the system would require certain internal controls and procedures to be in place. Procurement  management is required at different locations within a facility or multiple locations of a supply network to protect the regular and planned course of production against random disturbance caused by running out of materials or goods. 
Nowadays scholars hold quite views about the role of procurement system in modern organizations. There are theories whose authors consider this concept from the point of view economic perspective that share the emphasis on its economic component. It is more and more common to encounter arguments about supply chain management in the framework of procurement. 
Procurement system can be divided into four main areas of supply: for industrial enterprises, for trading companies, government and international procurement. 
The implementation of strategic procurement within a company requires focus on three procurement concepts: group buying, centralized procurement services, and using procurement data management systems. The concepts in strategic procurement require communication and cooperation between the business unit and financial services and that procurement be implemented effectively. 
Modern enterprises have already integrated procurement management in the main areas active in implementing their behavior in the market environment and try to use procurement system this factor to enhance competitiveness. 
In conformity with tradition of logistical studies the immediate aims that are in the framework of the project are: to explore various approaches to the problem which are advocated by theorists and to reveal the underlying logic of organization procurement standards - the main factor of the logistic system. Considering the continuous interest in procurement and inventory in Russia it seems worthwhile to follow and develop certain Sergeev’s and Hygog’s insights in this area. Moreover, since the question of reduction of costs is in matter of paramount interest nowadays, another specific aim of our analysis involves a necessity to consider supply chain management  - the factor 
that on a more general level is seen as essentially relevant in procurement system of the organization.
Supply chain management is still evolving and developing and there are, therefore, numerous definitions of it.  Supply chain management may be said to be broadly about the efficient and effective management of all activities from primary suppliers right through to the point of sale. 

Problem statement. The main problems the companies face are to determine the procurement method and the supplier selection method and then to calculate the EOQ effectively.
The main problems determine the relevance of the chosen research topic. 
The relevance of the organization procurement system and effective management is also due to the fact that the supply of raw materials and nonproductive material resources has a determining influence on the competitiveness of the company, its financial position and financial performance.
The main object of our research is procurement system. The subject  - improvement of the procurement system. The general objective of this study is to investigate the determinants of supplier selection in the procurement process and to assess the local principles in practicing this process in comparison with the common standards. And, as a result to improve the organization’s procurement management system.
The following problems need to be solved to achieve the goal:
Studying theoretical foundations for procurement management;
Describing the methods of procurement system and choosing a supplier in the organization;
Calculating the optimal size of purchases in some industries of the organization
Analyzing the existing procurement management system at the enterprise;
Developing some ways to improve it. 

Professional significance. The study would benefit several areas of the corporate system. First of all it creates opportunities for the procurement professional to contribute to the organization’s success. Furthermore this research would help managers of this area develop their supply chain management skills so as to supplement the knowledge they possess as far as traditional procurement procedures are concerned. Finally, procurement system has a pivotal role to play within the organization, involving as it does responsibility for predicting and satisfying end customers' demand back through to the suppliers. 

Delimitations of the study. Like any other research, this study has its limitations. The first one is lack of information. The company cannot provide all the required documents, as it is necessary to protect the trade secrets. This means that it would be difficult to collect all the data for the calculations. Secondly, the organization may not need any recommendations. The company could ignore the problems in their working process so it does not need any changes. And the last limitation is time.  The time for the research being limited, the researcher runs the risk of not being able to analyze and review the necessary information. To avoid these problems, it is necessary to talk to the administration and assure them about all benefits of research and looking at the situation from outside.  

Definitions of key terms. EOQ -stands for “Economic Order Quantity” and refers to the best level of purchase that is possible in relation to costs and expenses a company shoulders in terms of production, inventory holding, demand rate, and other production variables. 

Main body
Literature Review. In the following chapter relevant theories in relation to procurement management will be reviewed. These theories provide basis for discussing the results of the empirical investigation, the latter performed through interviews (of internal employees and selected suppliers) and a following Root CauseAnalysis (RCA) of major weaknesses/improvement areas. 
A supplier is defined as an entity who supplies goods or services; either customer tailored products on order or standardized goods. (BridgefieldGroup). The Bridgefield Group has over 20 years of experience in planning, operations, quality, logistics, finance, IT, project management, consulting and with software vendors.  
A customer is defined as a party that receives or consumes products (goods or services) and has the ability to choose between different products and suppliers.
“All of the elements in the process that enables the delivery of a product to a customer. The chain begins with the customer order acquisition/procurement process, links through logistics and manufacturing and ends with the suppliers and the acquisition of materials”. CoreSim, headquartered in Ottawa, Canada, provides design analysis services to internal design teams within Original Equipment Manufacturers, Engineering Manufacturing Suppliers and Silicon Vendors.  As described by Deardorff  (Alan V. Deardorff is Professor of Economics and Public Policy at the University of Michigan), different process steps are often executed in different firms and locations, making logistics (obtaining, producing, and distributing materials and products) an important part of the supply chain. CoreSim’s definition introduces the procurement function as a vital part of a supply chain, as basis for the relationship and communication between the different participants. (Deardorff, 2005)
Procurement is an important part of the interface between customer and supplier. It is important to note that procurement is a substantially broader concept than purchasing. The classic definition of purchasing is “to buy materials of the right quality, in the right quantity from the right source delivered to the right place at the right time at the right price”(Lysons and Farrington, 2006). Further, Lysons and Farrington define procurement as “the process of obtaining goods or services in any way”. ICG Commerce  Europe has the following definition of procurement; “The entire process or function associated with the buying of goods and services to support business operations. Key steps of procurement includes: planning or needs analysis, strategic sourcing, purchasing, order management and ongoing cost and supplier performance management” (ICG Commerce ). ICG Commerce is a procurement services provider committed to reducing procurement costs for their customers. 
This emphasizes the main difference between purchasing and procurement. Purchasing is the transactional placement and processing of a purchase order. Procurement includes a formal sourcing process that begins with the placement of a requisition, which upon approval, becomes a purchase order and is sent to a supplier. Upon fulfillment, the buyer is invoiced and the supplier is paid. Some companies are also seen to include returns as a part of the procurement function. Returns mean creating a network for receiving defective products and supporting customers. 
The Japanese just-in-time production philosophy  is also reflected in definitions of
procurement.  The basic elements of just-in-time (JIT) were developed by Toyota in the 1950's, and became known as the Toyota Production System (TPS). JIT was well-established in many Japanese factories by the early 1970's.  JIT began to be adopted in the U.S. in the 1980's (General Electric was an early adopter), and the JIT concepts are now widely accepted and used (Raymond A. Jacobs, Professor of Business Administration, Ashland University, Ashland, Ohio). JIT is a management philosophy that strives to eliminate sources of manufacturing waste and cost by producing the right part in the right place at the right time. VentureLine provide on demand MBA level analyses of public and private companies from financial performance, valuation and futures perspectives.)  Business dictionary defines procurement as “the acquisition of goods or
services at the best possible Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), in the right quantity, at the right time, in the right place for the direct benefit or use of the governments, corporations, or individuals generally via, but not limited to a contract”. On a more detailed level, procurement types are divided into direct, production-related, and indirect, non-production-related, procurement. Direct procurement is often characterized by large quantities and high frequency, but this depends on type of product; mass-produced or customized. Indirect procurement usually concerns low quantities at both relatively high and low frequencies. In supply chain management the focus is on direct procurement, directly affecting the production process of manufacturing firms (raw materials, components and parts). On the other, hand indirect procurement concerns the resources a company acquires to enable its operations (office supplies, equipment, consulting services etc.). 
The procurement life cycle usually consists of seven steps; starting with information gathering. When a relationship is not yet established, searching for suppliers who can satisfy the requirements is necessary. After identifying suitable suppliers contact must be made, this either as direct contact or through the requests for information and proposals. A background review is often conducted, consulting references for product/service quality, requirements for follow-up services etc. As a supplier is qualified and chosen for a project, negotiations are undertaken, and price, availability and customization possibilities are established. Delivery schedules are negotiated, and a contract to acquire the product or service is completed. During the fulfillment phase supplier preparation, shipment, delivery, and payment for the product or service are completed, based on contract terms. Installation and
training must also be included. The following step includes consumption,  maintenance and disposal as well as evaluating the product or service. As the contract expires or the product or service is to be re-ordered the company (based on the experience with the supplier and its products) determines whether to continue using the same supplier or consider other suppliers.
As well as having established functional procurement processes, other aspects of the procurement function are also relevant. An article published in “Supply Chain Management Review” issued by Reed Business provides a list of aspects that determine whether the supply organization is alive and well or a significant drag on corporate competitiveness. Reed Business provides a range of communication and information channels - magazines, exhibitions, directories, online media, and marketing services - across five continents.
The research is excerpted with permission from the new book “Straight to the Bottom Line - An Executive's Roadmap to World Class Supply Management”. The authors (Rudzki, Smock et al. 2005) state that if a company still thinks of the supply process as purchasing they are living in the 1960s. 
Having a good procurement team with a proper leader is vital in ensuring the success of any supply chain strategy. Understanding the overall business objectives and the fundamentals of supply chain management is crucial. In addition, the working relationship between purchasing professionals and those in other disciplines is highly relevant. Traditionally the role of most purchasing organizations supporting manufacturing has been negotiating, developing contracts and placing orders for parts and materials. As procurement and manufacturing were significantly separated the supply base proliferated and became more difficult to handle. Another important aspect is that procurement focused too much on expediting part deliveries and coordinating the short-term resolution of quality issues. The authors of the article claim that in the 21st century corporation, procurement must play more a strategic (developing supply chain strategies as well as developing both new and existing
supply chains) and less tactical (material requirement planning, generating purchase orders, receiving materials etc.) role. The latter recognizing the supply base as the most powerful allies. 
The search of new suppliers is a continuous priority for companies in order to upgrade the variety and typology of there product range. This is essentially due to two main reasons. At first, more generally product life cycle is very short and new models must often be developed by using completely renewed material or with new technologies. Second, more industries are, historically, a labour intensive sector. These aspects are expressed through a complex pattern of demand for material and labour. 
Supplier or vendor selection decisions are complicated by the fact that various criteria must be considered in decisions making process. The analysis of criteria for selection and measuring the performance of suppliers has been the focus of many scientists and purchasing practitioners since the 1960’s.
An interesting work, which is a reference for the majority of papers dealing with supplier or vendor selection problem, was presented by Dickson (Dickson, 1966). Dickson’s study was based on a questionnaire sent to 273 purchasing agents and managers selected from the United States and Canada. A total of 170 Dickson’s study regarding the importance of 23 criteria for supplier selection. Indeed, the 23 criteria are ranked with respect to their importance observed in the beginning of the sixties. At that time (1966), the most significant criteria were the «quality»of the product, the «on-time delivery», the «performance history»of the supplier and the warranty policy used by the supplier. 
The majority of the existing methods to solve the supplier selection problem could be classified in three principal categories. 
The first called «elimination method». For this method, on each level, manager eliminates, from the supplier list, suppliers that do not satisfy the selection rule. With a «conjunctive»rule (Crow, 1980), manager eliminates the suppliers whose mark, with respect to a criterion, is lower than the minimal mark. Thus, manager chooses one of the suppliers satisfying the minimum level of all the criteria. In a «lexicographic»rule (Wright, 1975) , on the first level the most significant criterion should be selected and the compared with this criterion. If a supplier satisfies this criterion much better than the other suppliers then it is chosen, if not manager compares the suppliers with respect to the second criterion, and soon. 
The second method called «optimization method». For the optimization method manager optimists an objective function, which could consist of a single criterion or a set of criteria subject or not to a set of constraints. 
The third method is «probabilistic method». The supplier selection decision could often be handled in a relatively routine fashion, either because there is little probability of the customer’s making an error, or because an error would not seriously impact the performance. Under certain conditions, however, there is a relatively high probability that an inappropriate supplier will be selected and that such an error will adversely affect the customer. 
When the assumptions on which purchase order requirements are based prove faulty, it may be necessary to change quantities, delivery rates, design specifications  or other important terms of the contract. Even though the selected supplier was best able to meet the terms of the original purchase order, it may not be the best choice for the modified contract. 
According to the method called «Payoff Matrix»( Soukup, 1987), manager defines several scenarios of the future behavior of the suppliers. For each scenario, manager associates a mark to suppliers with the respect to the criteria. Then manager computes the total mark of each supplier and chooses for example the supplier who has a stable mark according to various scenarios. 
Soukup suggested three categories of supplier selection decisions:
The suppliers under considerations are similar under all foreseeable circumstances: only minor differences in performance can be expected. This decision should be handled routinely.
The potential suppliers differ significantly: one supplier is superior under all foreseeable conditions. This decision should be handled routinely.
The candidate suppliers differ significantly under at least some future conditions that may be expected: the best supplier under some circumstances. This decision category presents the customer with a moderate to high probability of making an error in the selection of a supplier, coupled with the possibility of serious consequences of such an error. This supplier selection situation warrants considerable  effort and care. 
After choosing the best supplier manager should determine the optimal size of purchase. There are several basic ways to analyze and improve the company’s procurement system. Among the many of these methods the most popular is EOQ model, which calculates the optimal size of purchase. (Amir M. Hormozi, Ph.D)
EOQ stands for “Economic Order Quantity” and refers to the best level of purchase that is possible in relation to costs and expenses a company shoulders in terms of production, inventory holding, demand rate, and other production variables. When quantifying EOQ, one should determine how much product  is expected to be added to the existing product line after every customer order has been performed. This is done to basically help lower costs of shortages, inventory holding, and production and/or order ones. (Donovan R.M.)
The EOQ  model and calculation are said to have been created by F.W. Harris, but another person R.H. Wilson by name  is credited for the EOQ formula or model due to his having analyzed  this  concept in a more profound way. That is why EOQ is also referred to as the Wilson Model or Wilson Formula.  (Wilson, R. H.)
With the help of EOQ  model, companies will be able to determine how much to order and keep by means of regular review and procurement level analysis. With the EOQ  system in place, companies would be guided at which point or level of inventory to dictate reordering and replenishment, how much will be added to existing levels, and how frequent the replenishment should happen 

Methods
This part of the proposal would explain the methods to be used in carrying out this research giving special emphasis to the analysis of the data.It should be made clear at the outset, that the methodology involved is to a certain extent an evolving one and will take more definite shape as the study is progressing. More specifically, it is a specific approach within a broad field of logistics. Since there is no consensus among scholars, the necessity methodological framework has actually achieved a kind of urgent in our times. 
As it has been shown earlier, the main intensions of the research are to determine the procurement method and the method of choosing a supplier and then to calculate the optimal size of purchase effectively in order to understand how to control the procurement system successfully. The problems which were stated in this topic need to be resolved at the end of investigation. The following sequence of actions helps to conduct the research properly.
Firstly, the specific literature about procurement and supply chain management systems must be reviewed and analyzed. Different scientific works, as well as current articles on procurement management improvement were analyzed in the process of conducting the research. Besides, the methods and technologies of purchase optimization were explored.
Secondly, in order to understand how the procurement system could be improved at a particular company, I need to analyze the available documentation concerning the status of procurement levels in this company.  
Furthermore, the necessary information can be obtained via an interview with the directors of logistics department, related to the procurement management system in the company. This interview will help not only to refine the data about sizes and methods of purchase, but also to identify the problems that exist at the enterprise in the opinion of the head.
The final step is data-based calculating of all the required parameters in order to identify the most appropriate method for procurement control. After all the calculations have been performed, the company can see the results and decide whether to change the existing procurement system and whether the new system is more efficient. 

Results anticipated
The final part of the proposal is organized in terms of research question posed in introduction and reports on the results are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. In this connection one of the goals that was set is to make the reliability and validity of the data collected high enough to support the sustained analysis especially when the research presents disconfirming evidence of the existing theories. Since a single project cannot provide a sound basis for the generalization, this research and others with the similar results would reveal that the additional research seems to be necessary on the problem in question. 
The findings of the study are expected to bring about positive changes for the company under analysis. Firstly, our research is aimed at identifying its procurement system organization problems.  As a result, the peculiarities of the problem are to be defined and recommendations for procurement system improvement are to be given. The recommendations will be related to the procurement and supply chain strategy, mainly the way in which to order them, and how to determine the size of products the company needs - that is, the items to be excluded from the assortment by using EOQ formula and to determine the more appropriate supplier selection method by summarizing most significant criteria. 
The presentation of the results will use an appropriate pattern. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. Some complex data will be presented in tables. Some nonlinear relationships will be shown in figures. All of the results will be reported in the narrative text. For instance the correspondence between criteria of vendor selection and its rate including the significance of each factor and its suggested improvements will be presented in a big summary table , while the relations between factors will be demonstrated using a diagram. The appendix will include some raw data that will be collected during the interim stage of the research. 
The study will have some major theoretical implications, confirming and expending the existing model , and, along with other similar studies, it may provide some useful basis for practical activities. The company is expected to take into consideration the recommendations exempt from bias and prejudice.  Companies do not have to use the proposed solutions, they can simply analyze their problems and solutions to them, and then decide whether they are suitable or not.  Perhaps, in the research process, a proper solution to the problem will be proposed and appreciated for its scientific novelty. 

Conclusion
I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. It follows from what has been discussed that there are various approaches to procurement and supplier selection methods and different criteria to rate them. This project has discussed the approaches of Dickson, Deardorff, Wilson. Undoubtedly the contribution of these scientists cannot be questioned yet it is necessary to explore some contemporary approaches in order not to lose recent developments in the field of procurement management. 
The success of the modern enterprise is dependent on efficient and effective procurement management. The integration of a Chief Procurement Officer at the executive level provides companies with much-needed logistical insight, helping to facilitate strategic decision-making with hard data and on-the-ground experience. Top performing organizations rely on procurement professionals to align purchasing and supply chain initiatives with high-level business objectives, and the resulting successes enjoyed by these companies make it clear that the role of Chief Procurement Officer will only become more influential moving forward. This research is significant in the sense that it will put into perspective the exact determinants for vendor/supplier selection and the best methodologies to purchase such construction materials, goods, equipment, workmanship or any other relevant services. . The categories of vendors/suppliers could be defined before awarding a contract. The study will also be valuable to business consultants and give a map road for policy makers to set legislations toward perfection of the profession.
To bring the project to a close, I will try to make some generalizations and outline a theoretical background for future research.