INTRODUCTION
Background of the study. With development of technology and emergence of new media, customer behavior is changing significantly. The traditional stationary sales outlet is losing relevance. Hence, new semi-stationary formats and web-based customer touchpoints are emerging. Beyond that, younger customers demand a higher level of interaction with the manufacturer than the traditional ones. They also expect the manufacturer to be available and responsive at all times. The landscape of possible touchpoints is becoming more complex, creating new types of customer journeys. 
There are three major trends that reshape the current automotive dealership industry. The first is that customer behavior is changing. The modern customer is expecting a new sales process, such as the unique experience like in branded electronics stores or smart product suggestions based on customer relationship data. The second major trend is connected with customer expectations when he comes to the dealership center. The customer comes to the dealer with certain questions, so deep technical and functional knowledge of the car is a key requirement. The third trend is formed by the industry. Developed markets are becoming very saturated, so dealers have to compete by improving the service they provide, which includes close tracking of performance, implementation of new processes and standards. At the same time, OEMs are concerned about developing a corporate identity, which leads to additional conditions. These include a one-brand policy, so that the dealer helps to create a holistic view of the brand it presents. Another important issue is that OEMs demand the dealers to separate their new and used car businesses.
To improve the customer journey OEMs create new automotive retail (or dealership) formats. They also seek for accurate ways to measure performance and customer satisfaction. Consulting companies too have developed recommendations how to improve customer experience based on their research. This information can be used as a benchmark for how a particular dealership can gain competitive advantage.

Problem statement. It is obvious that simple transfer of customer experience solutions could be unsuccessful due to the cultural and economic differences of consumers. On the other hand it is widely accepted that customer experience management is the new promising tool to increase customer satisfaction and company profits. 
The general problem of the research is the alignment of the benchmark customer experience solutions with the current Russian market experience. Thus the purpose of the research is to define the best possible customer experience management solutions adaptable for the Russian market. This purpose could be decomposed into several tasks, namely: 
Customer experience benchmark selection
Russian customer preferences examination specifically in the car industry
Inventory of the current experience of local car dealers in cx management
Classification of the cx management solutions applied internationally by various car dealers and the examination of their effective application into the local business environment. 

Delimitations of the study. Form the theoretical point of view the main delimitation goes from the fact that customer experience management is still the underdeveloped field of research. In order to carry out the proper selection of benchmarks one should obtain the large range of the examples, which could be unavailable as far as not that many customers share successive solutions. Another important delimitation stands from the fact of the current economic crisis - as we plan to base our research on secondary data we could face the lag of actual information scarcity and some numbers could be overestimated. Finally the cultural and economic gap between developed foreign countries and Russia makes it difficult to apply concepts and solutions which will give results in the short run. 

Sample. Several samples are planed for the research. The first one is the sample of the benchmarks. We plan to provide continuous sampling of all the cases we will meet in literature through the period of 2010-2015. Another sample which we are going to employ is the sample of car dealers representatives and managers. It will be formed using the snowball sampling principle. We consider that the number of items in the sample will correspond to the number of local car dealers by the time of the data collection. 

Professional significance. The results of this research have a significant practical value. It can show how and why benchmarking works in a Russian cultural environment in the automotive retail industry. It is important to note that application of the developed recommendations may lead the dealership to gaining competitive advantage, which is a valuable benefit of conducting the research. 

Definition of key terms. This research proposal requires to terms to be described. The first is “OEM”, which stands for “original equipment manufacturer”. The second term is “customer experience”, which is considered as all the touchpoints occurring between the customer and the company.

Literature review 
There is a wide theoretical basis on customer experience research. 
Pine and Gilmore (1998 and 1999) were some of the first writers to address the notion of the customer experience (see also Carbone and Haeckel 1994 and Johnston 1999). In their paper in 1998; “Welcome to the Experience Economy” and their book the following year; The experience economy – Work is theatre and every business a stage, Pine and Gilmore observed that as services are becoming more commoditized leading-edge companies are competing on experiences.
Research on the customer experience appears to be in its infancy, certainly compared to service related topics such as service quality and loyalty. Furthermore, the customer experience is sometimes seen only as an issue for „entertainment‟ type organizations such as theme parks (experience-centric organizations – see Zomerdijk and Voss 2010). However the literature suggests that whatever the service (or indeed product) a customer is buying or receiving, that customer will have an experience; good, bad or indifferent, i.e. a service always comes with an experience (Carbone and Haeckel 1994) and that all service encounters provide an opportunity for emotional engagement, however mundane the product or service might be (Berry and Carbone 2007, Voss and Zomerdijk 2007).
A challenge that seems to be emerging from the literature is how can organisations systematically engineer their customer experiences (Carbone and Haeckel 1994) in order to achieve the „triple bottom line‟ i.e. to make them not only better for the customer but also better for the organisation‟s staff and better for its „bottom line‟ i.e. cheaper and more efficient (Bate and Robert 2007, H.M. Government 2007).
There appear to be three main areas covered in the current literature; why is the customer experience important? What is a customer experience? And how do organizations go about designing a better customer experience?
Several authors (see for example Pine and Gilmore 1998 and 1999, Shaw and Ivens 2002, Voss 2003), have made the point that the customer experience may provide a new means of competition. Providing a good experience is also important because it affects customer satisfaction (Liljander and Strandvik 1997), delivers customer loyalty (Yu and Dean 2001), influences expectations (Johnson and Mathews 1997), instils confidence (Flanagan et al. 2005), supports the brand (Grace and O‟Cass 2004 Berry and Carbone 2007) and also creates emotional bonds with customers or, conversely, leads to emotional scarring (Pullman and Gross 2004). However, despite these benefits, the limited amount of research in this area suggests that good customer experiences are not prevalent. For example, a recent survey by Bain & Co. of 362 companies, across several industries and their customers, found that 80 per cent of the senior executives interviewed said they provided a superior customer experience, but just eight per cent of their customers agreed (Coffman and Stotz 2007).
There appears to be a good deal of confusion in the literature about the definition of an experience and its difference to a service. There is an enormous range of services available from a vast range of organisations, including business-to-business, business-to-consumer, the public sector and voluntary organisations. It is therefore perhaps not surprising that there appears to be no single, agreed and comprehensive definition of what a 'service' is (Haywood-Farmer and Nollet 1991). While a service is the process or activity, the customer‟s experience is their personal interpretation of the service process and their interaction and involvement with it during their journey or flow through a series of touch points, and how those things make the customers feel. The experience (and value, Vargo and Lusch 2004) is perceived purely from the point of view of an individual customer and is inherently personal, existing only in the customer‟s mind. Thus, no two people can have the same experience (Pine and Gilmore 1998).
While much operations management research has focused on service design, experience design has received only limited attention (Pullman and Gross 2004). However, there has been some work in this area. Several „operational‟ tools have been developed to help both design and assess the customer experience, including creating experience clues, designing the „servicescape‟, customer journey mapping, service transaction analysis, customer experience analysis, walk-through audits, and sequential incident technique (Stauss and Weinlich 1997).
Stuart and Tax (2004) argued that the customer experience can be enhanced by designing the service system to encourage greater active customer participation. Bate and Robert (2007) introduced an approach which involves customers in the design of the experience; experience-based design. Pickles et al. (2008) developed this methodology to demonstrate how three theoretical components of good design: functionality, engineering and aesthetics can be used as a framework to improve performance, safety and governance.
In terms of taking a more strategic and holistic approach to experience design, Carbone and Haeckel (1994) divided experience design into four phases; 1) acquisition of service experience design skills, 2) data collection and analysis, 3) service clue design, and 4) implementation and verification. Later they suggested five steps; 1) build a diverse design team, 2) drill down to the experience core, 3) focus on clues, 4) develop the experience narrative or story line, and 5) prioritise implementation opportunities. In 2007 Berry and Carbone proposed a five step approach; 1) identify the emotions that evoke customer commitment, 2) establish an experience motif, 3) inventory and evaluate experience clues, 4) determine the experience gap, and 5) close the experience gap and monitor execution.
Aside from theoretical research of customer experience in general, there has also been conducted car dealer customer experience research. Existing research generally proves the same general ideas of what development direction the industry currently has. Overall there are three main ideas mentioned: customer behavior is changing, deep technical and functional knowledge of the car is a key requirement for a dealer, and markets are becoming very saturated. 
The McKinsey 2013 Retail Innovation Consumer Survey offers thorough analysis of the current situation. It describes the state of the industry, what should be expected and how dealers can adapt to the future changes (McKinsey 2014). Arthur D Little based on the results of its research emphasizes more on how internet and technology development influences customer behavior. The traditional stationary sales outlet is losing relevance. Hence, new semi-stationary formats and web-based customer touchpoints are emerging (Arthur D Little 2015). ATKearney focuses on analyzing customer experience in developed automotive markets. Though this research is broader and approaches the problem from the OEM side, it has a big amount of relevant information to understand what a good car dealer customer experience is (ATKearney 2014).	

Methods employed
The research requires the use of several methods. The first is analyzing existing international customer experience management cases. Also local experience will be analyzed the same way. A general overview of the Russian automotive market is necessary to be made, since the negative political situation affected the country's economic state, therefore lowering the ability of people to buy cars.  Then it is necessary to interview local car dealer managers using the snowball principle. It implies to interview several managers and to ask them for an opportunity to establish contact with other managers. Whether the application of international solutions is effective will be examined by the comparative analysis method. 

Results anticipated
The main results anticipated are that applying international benchmarks in Russia is complicated and will have difficulties with adaptation. The main causes are the cultural gap between the Russian and other customers from around the world and the economic crisis which has significant effect on the capability of the customers to buy cars. Nevertheless the implementation of international best practices is expected to have a positive effect on the dealers financial performance and overall customer experience in the long run. 

CONCLUSION
Customer expectations are changing in many industries around the world, including the automotive retail industry. While in some countries dealers react quick and improve their customer experience, dealers in others countries do not. This research attempts to study whether the achievements of countries with developed automotive retail customer experience could be adopted by the Russian market. This is intended to be done through benchmarking and interviewing local managers. Though it is important to take into consideration the delimitations that occur due to the current Russian economic state and cultural differences between customers from Russia and other countries. The research is expected to show that implementation of international best practices may be applicable to the Russian market. Therefore this research is of significant practical value.