Introduction
The first part of the proposal introduces the background of the study, states the problem, indicates the professional significance, determines the scope of the research and presents the definitions of the key terms. 

Theoretical background of the study.
The contemporary art market is one of those spheres of artistic life that provoke most debates. An increasing amount of publications in the field of contemporary art market is not so much concerned with the art market as a mechanism of purchase and sale of art but focuses instead on it as a space where economy, philosophy, art and sociology meet. This phenomenon allows investigators to discuss the value of art and to put in perspective the relationship between the world of art and the world of money (Arutyunova, 2015). 
According to the American sociologist H. White and art critic C. White (White, 1965, p. 98), radical change in the art system took place with the appearance of value determination system called “Dealer-Critic”, which replaced traditional academic approach of art valuation. Since that particular piece of art has been estimated in the context of the whole artist`s creative practices instead focusing on a certain art work without paying attention to the previous art achievements and potential future works. At the same time occurred the institution of the gallery, which M. Braathen (Braathen, 2007, p. 23) determined as the gap between guardian of museum traditions and department store. 
These new tendencies for art system had given an impetus to a considerable speculative activity. In case of old master`s art, expert evaluating opinion could be based on historical documents and scientific researches. Nevertheless, in the context of the modern art, which is produced beneath our eyes, exists a great possibility for financial and feeling speculation when independent expert opinion tend to lose its independence.

Problem statement.
To some extent the price of art has transformed into a social convention between collectors, dealers, curators, critics and experts. There is special relationship between all that participants who collectively form the contemporary art market. Thus, the primary aim of the proposed study is to express the mechanism of contemporary art valuation. 
There are following tasks to achieve the goal:
To review existing approaches to the art-market analysis;
to identify factors that influence modern art pricing;
to make a survey;
to design a strategy in art valuation;
to verify it, and, if it is necessary, to design alternative strategies;
to interpret the results and find flaws;
to indicate the restrictions of the strategy.

Delimitations of the study.
The study findings will be severely limited in the amount of information to be collected. I do not set myself the aim to explore in any depth the mechanisms of dealer`s manipulations, art auctions, fairs and online-sales. My contribution, if any, to the debate will consists largely in identification of key factors which create value to the pieces of contemporary art.
Finally, there will be limitations concerning theoretical framework of the study. It is related to the fact that the object of exchange at the art market corresponds with the creative work which still has no accurate and relevant theoretical approach to price determination. 

Professional significance of the study.
The research study will be of primary significance to a wide audience interested in the mechanisms of contemporary art valuation, as well as to scholars specializing in cultural studies and art economy. It seems particularly important to investigate the price of art work in terms of dynamic contemporary landscape. Moreover, the improved strategy in art valuation will serve as an advanced tool of art product assessment or even as a vehicle for predicting its future outcomes, which will be greatly appreciated by artists and individuals or organizations that prefer investing money in the art.

Definitions of the key terms.
Art market is the assembly of integrated subjects and institutions that create adopt and consume art (Degen, 2013).
Contemporary (modern) art is art that has been and continues to be created during our lifetimes. In other words, it is contemporary to us art.
Art valuation is the process of estimating the potential market value of art work.  

Literature review 
A large body of literature on the art market provides a basis for the present study. The section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. The general theoretical framework of the research has been driven from several works concerning controversial questions related to the art valuation. 
According to the art critic and specialist of modern art market A. Arutyunova (Arutyunova, 2015, p. 101) there are at least two polar opposite approaches to the art-market analysis. The first approach implies the fact that art is a personal reflection of inside and outside artist`s world where any kind of commercialization is harmful and undesirable. Historically, this idea has been supported especially among the artists. With the development of capitalism, the problem of art and money relationships has become crucial for them. For instance, M. Duchamp`s ready-mades - different  which the artist chose and presented as art – criticized basic principles of the art value formation. M. Duchamp was one of those artists who tried to make sense of pricing processes, to comment financial nature of the new art world and to draw into question the essence of the money (Mei, 2012).
The opposite approach identifies the art as a part of the large economic system. Correspondingly, it intimates that the art obeys the same laws as economy and there is no place for emotions. This idea had gained rapid promotion at 1990`s   affected by explosive market growth which lead to the establishment of the art as a profitable proposition and investment vehicle. Generally, the appearance of scientific interest to the contemporary art market took place in the 1973 year after famous auction conducted by The Sotheby’s. In the history of the auctions it was the first one which solely presented the works of alive contemporary artists. The auction`s sale achieved unexpected record-breaking amount of 2242900 dollars (Arutyunova, 2015, p. 100) that provoked the attractiveness of investment in the modern art and stimulated more aggressive price determination.  
American investigator V.A. Zelizer (Zelizer, 1989) studies that case of two approaches from the sociological point of view. She introduces the concept of “hostile worlds” which demonstrates the art market functioning beyond economic notions and market values. In fact, Zelizer identifies the existence of steady internal conflict between market and art where the value of art faces danger when it turns into a standard commerce and speculation object. Nevertheless, until the issue of interaction between price and value of the art stays open, art market researches could only rely on the economic approach though it is imperfect and has a range of disadvantages.  
Economist W. Grampp (Grampp, 1989, p. 93) persuades that artists, collectors and dealers who buy and sell the art are only looking for the profit. In this case the art market could mostly function as an effective mechanism of resources exchange by which W. Grampp implies artist`s talent and consumer`s money. Dealer’s role in this system defines to mediation between supply and demand on the art market where any piece of art is considered as a product. It is impossible to overestimate W. Grampp`s contribution which sheds a new light on the issue by setting equal mark between price and value of the art. This fact let me assume that the art has a price and it is possible to identify key factors that influence modern art pricing and to design a strategy in art valuation.  A focus on branding as one of that factors broadly uses in his book D. Thompson (Thompson, 2010). The hypothesis offered by D. Thompson accepts that when any artist achieves the branding status market starts being loyal to his entire creativeness. The writer reaches a conclusion that customer`s uncertainty in its ability to value the art should not be underestimated. Consequently, branding could be demonstrated as a stamp by which people are able to recognize a particular artist and connect him with his work.
The branded world intersects with the art world in numerous ways. Virtually, from the J. E. Schroeder perspective (Schroeder, 2010, p. 113) artists produce the world’s most expensive objects – paintings. Artists are subject to market forces, career management issues, substitution effects, and economic cycles, just like brands. In other words, artists can be discussed within a branding perspective (Schroeder, 2008). Art, as important representational system, may provide important insights into understanding branding processes, particularly in building brand identities and connecting value to images (Schroeder and Salzer-Mörling, 2006; Schroeder, 2009). Many contemporary artists utilize brands in their work, commenting on, analyzing, and creatively interrogating the branding concept and its role in consumer culture (Schroeder, 2005). 
D. Thompson (Thompson, 2010, p. 40) claims that collector`s prime motive for buying the art is just a kind of wise investment. In the system of total branding such consumer should only learn to recognize marketing codes and monitor the level of correspondence between external features of the art work and its` investment attractiveness. The author identifies four key marketing codes that could be regarded as key factors that influence the modern art pricing. 
The first one is for provenance - the origin and ownership history of works. The primary purpose of tracing the provenance of an object is normally to provide contextual and circumstantial evidence for its original production or discovery, by establishing its later history, especially the sequences of its formal ownership, custody, and places of storage. 
The second factor stands for reputation and professional level of the art dealers. They typically seeks out various  to represent, and builds relationships with  and  whose interests are likely to match the work of the represented artists. Some dealers are able to anticipate , while some prominent dealers may be able to influence the taste of the market. That it how particular dealers has a power to set a fashion for a selected artists and strongly increase the price of their works. 
The quantity of museum exhibitions is assigned by D. Thompson as the third crucial art pricing factor. It usually exists a direct correlation between price growth of the art work and frequency of this work appearance in the space of famous and prevailing art institutions. Considering the importance of that features D. Thompson even do not pay attention to any creative characteristics of the art work including work quality, artist`s competence in the art or his technique of idea expression. 
The last marketing code involves artist`s status in the art-ratings. Such ratings are commonly based on the market sales and opinions of leading experts in the art industry. At the same time, D. Thompson brings up a topic of speculation proving the ability of its appearance with the fact that the price of good critical article amounts to 200 dollars. For this reason, if the name of the artist is in the top of the art-ratings there is no guarantee that there is place for detailed and objective expert assessment. 
D. Thompson also refers to B. Gorvi (Thompson, 2010) who made another investigation in the sphere of art valuation. The manager of the modern art department in the  claims that colors of art works could be ranged in the order from the best sale to the worst sale: red, white, blue, yellow, green and black correspondingly. Focusing too narrowly on the physical form of the art objects B. Gorvi revealed several trends in the art pricing which may also be applied towards contemporary art, among them:
Bright colors are sold better than insipid;
the image of nude model is sold better than modesty;
the image of nude woman is sold better than man`s;
the image of young people is sold better than the image of old one;
genre painting is sold better than landscape;
flower-piece is sold better than fruit-piece;
the image of calm water is sold better than the image of storm or shipwreck;
horizontal image is sold better than vertical.
It follows from what has been discussed that in the question of art valuation serious attention should be paid mostly to economic, sociological and psychological aspects rather than to aesthetic. Basing on that overall literature review it becomes possible to develop a practical methodology for contemporary art valuation.

Methodology 
This part of the proposal explains methodology that is going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. It should be noted that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing.
As it was identified in the previous step, the understanding of the mechanisms at work in the market for paintings needs a reliable price measurement that is, however, problematic because of the heterogeneity. That is why the research design foregrounds concerns about exposure and estimation of the key art pricing factors. Except theoretical investigation of the problem I aim to have under observation marketing laboratory experiment. Actually, for eliminating the influence of external factors in such experiments simulated conditions are observed. In my case, firstly, I am going to choose one of my paintings for assessment. Secondly, I am going to determine the groups of participants, which will vary in measure of income and consumer motivation. There are two basic types of art consuming motivation: purchase as investment and as aesthetic pleasure (Arutyunova, 2015). After that, proceeding from D. Thompson and B. Gorvi researches I will consider a set of key factors that influence modern art pricing. Then, demonstrating the only painting and listing out possible factors, I will ask each participant to value the painting. The method used will help to classify key modern art pricing factors in order of importance, to discover correlation between income, motivation and pricing factors. The reason why I intend to use this method is the perspective of designing a general strategy of the art valuation. That may perceive the discrepancy that is exists on the art market between creators and consumers of the art in the process of art valuation and purchasing.

Summary of the results anticipated
The following part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with methods mentioned. The temporary results point to the existence of art valuation methodology though according to some specialists art is a product of creativity that cannot be analyzed from the economic point of view (Coslor, 2010; Shell, 1995). I intend that the findings of the study will establish a pattern for the modern art objects assessment. It might be expected that this pattern will be constituent with what is known about art pricing and at the same time will represent entirely new strategy for the art valuation. 
My arguments will be based on the data received in experiment that will be of laboratory nature. The method used will provide better understanding of the factors which has a decisive impact on consumer`s intention to buy a piece of contemporary art. It would be interesting to examine how these factors can improve relationship between the world of art and the world of money. To bridge the gap in knowledge about art pricing it is informative to place the issue in another perspective and re-examine existed approaches. The reliability of carefully collected data is high enough to support the sustained analysis. Respectively, the results will be reported accurately and objectively. Moreover, the project will have some major theoretical implications, confirming and expending the existing approaches, and, along with other similar studies, it may provide some useful basis for practical activities.