Introduction
Background. An increasing number of articles in the field of catering speaks of this field is growing interest to researchers. Over the past few years this market has undergone with significant changes in the structure and dynamics. In the pre-crisis situation in 2014 was an increase in market turnover of public catering by 8.3% compared to 2013.  However, the complications associated with external economic conjecture - the imposition of sanctions, embargo and the strong dollar - has led to a decline in this indicator in January 2015 by 3.6% and decreased by 4.7% over the next 2 months. 
Even despite this, some sectors of catering shows positive trend. For example, increasing turnover in the chain fast food srestaurants market segment, also in bars and pubs segment. Increased share of chain fast food restaurants to the total number was 47.5%. 
In aim to survive within new market conditions small businesses needs to review their marketing policy, which leads to the importance of this study. Special urgency this problem  corresponds for bars and pubs - 18-time reduction in the growth of this market in 2015 compared to 2014.  Reasons primarily are due to the reduction of income and, at the same time, increased prices for alcoholic beverages . According to a recent study of Nielsen, nearly half (49%) of Russians respondents had never visited a bar or pub since the beginning of the year. 

Problem Statement. Each new player must place greater focus on maximizing value of the marketing, in order to achieve a high conversion, and therefore - profits. Rebranding is even more important for companies that already have been several  years on the market. Capturing new customer segments by applying different marketing tools, changing the old or abandoning them. Thus, research hypotheses can be described as follows. In adverse market conditions, increased attention to marketing planning helps to improve financial performance of catering.
The objective of this work is to develop a concept for a particular catering segment. To achieve the aim of study following goals must be accomplished:
To articulate the concept of marketing planning and catering concept
To review approaches of marketing planning
To identify the features of planning, which are suitable for the market investigated
To conduct analysis of the company (SWOT, Porter’s Forces, etc.)
To identify existing problems of concept using data collected from the analysis
Develop a comprehensive solution to the problems identified through the description of a new concept of institution

Professional Significance. The practical significance of this work is due to the need for studing the object in attracting new audiences. In studying of this problem may be interested not only beginners but also experienced entrepreneurs of this field.
Literature review

The literature required to the research is generally devoted to the marketing planning, consumers behavior and market analysis.
In order to explore the complexities of developing a strategic marketing plan, it is necessary to define what the Marketing is.
One basic internationally acclaimed definition of a marketing made by author of business school marketing classics Dr. Phillip Kotler is: «the science and art of exploring, creating, and delivering value to satisfy the needs of a target market at a profit. Marketing identifies unfulfilled needs and desires. It defines, measures and quantifies the size of the identified market and the profit potential. It pinpoints which segments the company is capable of serving best and it designs and promotes the appropriate products and services.» 
A collection of articles of generous well known marketologists (such as Mary Kay Ash, Conrad Gessner, Lily Langtry and Julius Caesar) also applied to engaging a target market of consumers or other user to ultimately sell a product and hopefully to maintain relationship beyond the purchase. In virtue of their theoretical contribution in marketing AMA (American Marketing Association) developed their definition of marketing as: «Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.» 
Thus, marketing requires co-ordination, planning, implementation of campaigns and employees with the appropriate skills to ensure marketing success. Marketing objectives, goals and targets have to be monitored and met, competitor strategies analyzed, anticipated and exceeded. Through effective use of market and marketing research an organization should be able to identify the needs and wants of the customer and try to deliver benefits that will enhance or add to the customers lifestyle, while at the same time ensuring that the satisfaction of these needs results in a healthy turnover for the organization.
As we have seen Marketing is more than promotion. To truly satisfy customer "needs and wants" the marketing process should begin with  the research stage so that customers wants and need could be found. After research havebeen done product development should get started. It is followed by product distribution, product promotion and sales. Finally product sales should be followed by research to assess the marketing success, which leads to commercial success. 
Thus, as Marketing core was defined, now it is conceivable to define Marketing Planning: is a comprehensive blueprint which outlines an organization’s overall marketing efforts. Research into the efficacy of formalized marketing planning has shown that marketing planning  can make a significant contribution to commercial success. 
Both scholars – McDonald and Kotler - concur in the marketing planning process; however McDonald contribution is deemed to be more profound. The main effects within organizations are: 
The systematic identification of emerging opportunities and threats
Preparedness to meet change 
The specification of sustainable competitive advantage
Improved communication among executives 
Reduction of conflicts between individuals and departments 
The involvement of all levels of management in the planning process
More appropriate allocation of scarce resources 
Consistency of approach across the organization  
A more market-focused orientation across the organization
However; although it can bring many benefits, a strategic marketing plan is mainly concerned with competitive advantage – that is to say, establishing, building, defending and maintaining it.Most managers accept that some kind of procedure for marketing planning is necessary. Accordingly they need a system which will help them to think in a structured way and also make explicit their intuitive economic models of the business.
All management and decision-making process is extremely dependent on information about the current state and its development over time. Measurement - the main source of this information. When discussing the improvements over marketing plan, analysis of the current position on the market – a significant and necessary measure. Its results should provide information about how well company is doing and how it satisfies customer’s needs. The availability of essential and relevant information about the market condition makes it possible to determine the starting point for process.  
Any plan will only be as good as the information on which it is based, and the marketing audit is the means by which information for planning is organized. There is no reason why marketing cannot be audited in the same way as accounts, in spite of its more innovative, subjective nature. A marketing audit is a systematic appraisal of all the external and internal factors that have affected a company’s commercial performance over a defined period.
The very next step of marketing plan improvement is to conduct a market overview and it should spell out clearly:
What the market is
How it works
What the key decisions making points are
What the segments are
It is at key decision points that market segmentation should take place. A segment is a group of customers or consumers that share the same (or approximately the same) needs. This step is crucial, for it prefaceSWOT analysis.
A SWOT should be conducted for each segment that is considered to be important in the company’s future. These SWOT analyses should, if possible, contain just a few paragraphs of commentary focusing on key factors only. They should highlight internal differential strengths and weaknesses vis-á-vis competitors and key external opportunities and threats. A summary of reasons for good or bad performance should be included. They should be interesting to read, contain concise statements, include only relevant and important data, and give greater emphasis to creative analysis.
To summarize, carrying out a regular and thorough marketing audit in a structured manner will go a long way towards giving a company a knowledge of the business, trends in the market, and where value is added by competitors, as the basis for setting objectives and strategies.
On the same basis as SWOT analysis Kotler put forward Porter’s Five Forces analysis. This analysis is a framework that attempts to analyze the level of competition within an industry and business strategy development. It draws upon industrial organization economics to derive five forces that determine the competitive intensity and therefore attractiveness of an Industry. Those forces are: 
Threat of new entrants
Threat of substitute products or services
Bargaining power of customers
Bargaining power of suppliers
Intensity of competitive rivalry 
Both academics lose sight of advantage of parallel application of the analyses mentioned above. In aim of achieving better results I will use both of these instruments. 

Methods
The main instruments of data collection for this research are analysis of theoretical bases, statistics and carrying out a customer’sinterview. In the research there will be analyzed the documents such as concepts and models of marketing planning, as well as internal normative documents of the pub. 
Furthermore, I plan to use in-depth interview with business leader of pub to collect crucial data. Also, I intend to conduct up the interviews with the employees of the establishment. 
The main issues of interviews with employees and customers are as follows:
What developments are needed to make Abyrvalg more attractive to customers?
What are the main problems of the pub, which makes it uninviting?
It is also planned to examine the practice of marketing planning and pub concept analysis. Throughout the market research it would be necessary to study Perm citizens consumer’s behaviour . Thus, as consistent with marketing policy of different pubs and bars data obtained would help to define modern tendencies in catering shpere. 
After examing the practice of the market analysis I intend to elicit problems of Abyrvalg within results of the interviews of consumers and employees and apply them in concept developing process. 

Results Anticipated
The significance of this research is to solve specific practical problem. The marketing planning described above will help to increase market share and capture new segments consumers. The solution that will be developed as new concept also will solve several problems connected to commercial statement of Abyrvalg.
Furthermore, through the analysis conducted information of condition of market bars and pubs will be collected. It could give better understanding to business leader about possible ways of further development in case of the concept will fail.
The study will full such the gap in the literature as the creation, marketing planning and concept development. Therefore, it would be beneficial to other entrepreneurships in this market segment.

Limitations of Research
The lack of access to all crucial information may be necessary due to a trade secrets of pubs situated in the same market segment, as Abyrvalg. Furthermore, this complicates the whole process of market analysis for the reason that this data simply woun’t be provided by other pubs. 
There may be weak motivation of the employees and consumers during the interview. The absence of interest to the problem and resistance of organisational and habitual concept changes. Besides, it also could be complicated with the simple fact, that visitors come to relax and not to answer questions. 

Conclusion
As a result the following conclusions may be given. The marketing planning is a set of different business-processes connected with each other, and, thus, it has a complex structure. This structure may be also complicated due to some market deregulations. If company wants to increase overall efficiency it has to pay special attention to the marketing planning.
It is crucial to understand needs and wants of target segment of consumers for understanding how to create successful concept of pub in aim of achievement of company’s profitability. 



