Introduction
Background. Before to start to discuss about logistics costs, it is necessary to give a description of  logistics. According to Mohammed Shamim, “Logistics is a business planning framework for the management of material, service, information and capital flows” (Shamim, 2009). Logistics has appeared in the Roman Empire. Its main task was the distribution of food. But nowadays logistics uses only in economic sphere. Logistics plays a vital role in economic systems and in everyday life.  In logistics, as in any economic sphere there are costs. Reducing logistics costs has become important task for managers of a company. The importance of lowering logistics costs has also been acknowledged on different levels such as national, regional or global.  The efficiency assessment in logistic systems requires a complex of methods and indicators. Important part of this complex are methods of an assessment of logistic expenses. 

Problem Statement. The main goal of my work is to consider a system of indicators, in general terms, evaluating logistical efficiency and effectiveness.   It is important to estimate key indicators of efficiency. To solve this problem it is necessary to understand what are the costs in logistics and study their classification.  
Also, it is necessary to formulate the main research question the answer to which will help to reach a purpose. It sounds like “What are the logistics system performance indicators are the basis of the company's management and how to improve efficiency?” Therefore, research tasks can be determined: 
To examine logistics costs;
Identify key performance indicators of logistical activity;
To prepare a problem solution.

Delimitations of the study. The range of issues will be limited to only the activities in which the company operates, as we consider the logistics, and as a result the company must operate in this sphere.

Professional Significance . Currently, many researchers have studied the costs, but logistics costs are very rare topic. There is not a lot of literature on this topic, so my research can make newness.
Thereby, reaching the purpose of research and answering its main question will help to take a look on key logistics performance indicators, but it is not enough. Also, it is essential to examine literature about this theme and to choose tools, which will help to collect the information.

Literature review
Before the literature will be reviewed, it is necessary to define a logistics costs. As Cynthia Hartman noticed, “logistics costs are the charges for various transportation methods, including train travel, trucks, air travel and ocean transport. Logistics costs include fuel, warehousing space, packaging, security, materials handling, tariffs and duties”( Cynthia Hartman, 2011). 
The whole literature describes logistics costs from lots point of view. It is necessary to consider the main types of costs, which will be specified once the system of indicators of their effectiveness. Is also help to answer on the second research answer.There are conventional procedures comparative evaluation companies (benchmarking) in logistics which are based on analytical and expert methods. These assessments occur according to generally accepted indicators - complex logistic system performance indicators. It will be logical to review each indicator separately. Firstly, it is necessary to identify four keys indicators:
General logistics costs;
The quality of logistics services;
The duration of logistics cycles;
Productivity (effectiveness);  (Karri Rantasila, 2009)
General logistics costs are the total cost associated with complex functional logistics management and logistics administration in the logistics system.  As part of the general logistics costs are the following main groups of costs: 
The cost of implementation of logistics operations / functions. These costs mean - transaction, operational and logistical costs;
Losses from logistics risks;
Costs of logistics administration.
Over the last decade noticeable increase in logistics costs of many Western companies in the logistics functions such as transportation, order processing, information and computer support, as well as logistics administration. The famous American consultant in the field of logistics, Herbert W. Davis for several years tracking logistics costs in the US industry in the warehousing, transportation, order management / customer service, distribution management, etc.  In which logistics costs accounted for 47.48% of the total costs of the company.  From can be draw a simple conclusion that logistics costs are significant to remain unnoticed.[1] (Herbert Davis,2009) 
As many logisticians currently there is no clear evaluation of the quality of logistics services.  In the Paper the Lambert D., Stock J., Ellram L. “Fundamentals of logistic management”, explains why there is still no effective means of assess the quality of logistics services.  Firstly is intangibility of service. Secondly, services are consumed in the moment when they are produced, i.e. Services are not stored or transported. Finally, discrepancies between the expectations of customers and their perception of criteria such as the reality, reliability, responsiveness, competence, courtesy, trust, safety, communication skills, understanding of the customer. (Lambert, 1998)  There are many options for measuring the quality of service: tangibility, reliability (execution Just in Time), responsibility, availability, safety and understanding with the buyer.  Specification of logistic service parameters of quality and the choice of methods of evaluation and monitoring is perhaps the most difficult issues in the logistics administration.  
The most important indicator of the efficiency of an integrated logistics system is the duration of the full logistics cycle.  Full logistics cycle is one of the basic concepts in logistics - a cycle of execution of the order (order lead time) - the time between placing an order and delivery of the ordered product or service to the final consumer.  (Sergueyev, 2006)  Application of the rules of the laws of cycle can lead to optimize the logistics process, which in turn have a positive impact on costs.  
The last complex indicator is productivity. Productivity is measured by the amount of work the staff and equipment per unit of time and is characterized mainly by unit costs of financial resources in the logistics system.  Russian logistics specialists believe that in Russia there is no indicator of "logistics productivity", The Russian economy has used term the asset turnover. 
To improve the efficiency of the logistics system of the company must adhere to the group of formula.  The criterion for optimal logistics processes acts profits of the company.  The optimality criterion is the minimum possible use of the index given the total cost.
Cп - production costs;
Соб - distribution costs;
The efficiency logistics activities organized on the corresponding channel can be determined by the formula: 
R - the rate of return of goods flow;
S - trading revenues businesses;
CТД - costs goods flow.
These are two basic formulas that should be followed any company in which there is logistics. 
There are three basic ways to reduce logistics costs:
1. The introduction of science and technology and improving the technological level of production - reduces the cost by increasing productivity;
2. Improving the organization of production, labor and management;
(These two factors contribute to lower costs as a result of increased production of goods and services)
3. Efficient use of material resources and the savings in material flow logistics system.
Of course, it is not full description of theoretical background. It is just short summary of aspects. Nevertheless, it will be enough to conduct research and to interpret results in a right way.

Methodology
Within the research, there should be some methods to reach the purpose and answer the main question.  As far as there is a need to get information about logistics costs and about indicator of efficiency it makes sense to carry out quantitative methods which include such methods as analysis of documentation and depth interviews with top managers.  By using these two methods current situation at the company can be identified. Analysis of documentation gives the information about the expenses and revenues of the company. With the help of documents, we can understand the current financial situation, and see what the company is spending their money and also it can help to identify how much the company is spending on logistics. 
Second method within this research is depth interview. This method can be very useful, because in close conversation with top managers of the company, is is possible to identify the most actual problems of the company. This method was chosen instead of a focus group, as there is only a need to talk with top managers as they manage costs. Top managers know how to increase the productivity of their company, reduce costs and how to conduct a competition policy.  
Research has several steps, using which will yield the result. First step is data collection with the use of before-mentioned indicator. Second step is comparison of theoretical basis of warehouse with data received.  Then the company can already decide what action they need to take in order to reduce their costs and improve efficiency.  The company also can see some of the formula provided that it can be useful in improving efficiency.

Predicted outcomes
Projected results of the study may include that some companies will be found on the high costs of logistics services, as well as inefficient use of resources of the company. 
After carrying out practical research and a comparison with theoretical data, we can get a strategy through which the company can lower its logistics costs and improve efficiency. 
The research results will be useful for company, where it will be conducted because the company will implement a set of procedures to reduce costs, as well as to understand due to the theoretical basis of their problems.
It will be useful for company, which will be explored, because it can show them their weakness from an impersonal point of view. But it cannot be said if it will be helpful for other companies, because each company needs a separate study. However, some companies can find this research quite interesting and can borrow some ideas. 

Limitations of research
Research limitations can be divided into two groups:
Data collection limitation;
Limitation of application.
Limitations connected with data collection can arise if company representative will not allow using their documentation for the research. Companies have the right to do.This will lead to information incompleteness and will not allowed to make conclusion and elaborate recommendations. Second group of limitations is about impossibility of practice application because of various reasons. This research may be useful only from theoretical point of view, not practical.
The worst case scenario is that the research result will not have a practice application and it will not be useful for any company. Nevertheless, we cannot say that a negative result could mean a failed study. We can conclude from this and correct technique.

Conclusion
Logistics costs can account for such a large proportion of total costs in the business it is critical that they be carefully managed.  It is critical that decisions on logistics strategies made based upon a thorough understanding of the impact they will have on the financial performance of the business. I had studied the performance indicators of logistical activity that is directly related to costs incurred by the company. It developed a method of empirical research that will be carried out for any company. In my study of the two methods has been applied to study the situation of the company, only the company which bears the costs. With these methods it is possible to develop recommendations to reduce costs. I believe that my research is very relevant and can bring great benefits in the future.