Introduction
In this part of the project proposal will be introduced: the background of the study, problem statement, professional significance of the research and delimitation of the study.

Background. Offering a consumer goods and services of high quality at minimal costs is the main goal of all organizations in different industries. The question is: how it can be achieved? 
It can be achieved only through effective and well-organized production of goods and services, reduction of costs on production and storing and rational use of resources, both material and human. What is also important – all these should be done at all levels and in coordination with company’s strategy. Without these elements company would not be competitive in the market. 
The emergence of company’s strategy operationalization as the function of organizational management is connected with the importance to increase the efficiency of business processes and operationalization is regarded as the instrument for this.  
Operationalization is aimed to organize business processes in such a way that makes all them work effectively. So operationalization of company’s strategy is concerned with designing, redesigning and managing business operations at all organizational levels in order to produce goods and services at required quality at minimal costs. In other words, operationalization is the lifeblood of an organization. 
Operations management, which realizes operationalization, is a key of company’s success. Without operations strategy and effective operations management organization will not go very far in contemporary market with increasingly aggressive competition. Thus, there is nothing special about the fact that operationalization is a substantial factor for any company.

Problem statement. Despite an obvious importance of operationalization of company’s strategy not so many organization really pay enough attention to it. Statistics shows that most organizations work in the following way: they determine the strategy of the company, and then set the key figures which they want to achieve, and appoint who are responsible for this achievement. And that is all. In reality all organizational functioning comes to everyday routine.
Though there is a great deal of scientific works dedicated to designing a business model of organization, how to increase its efficiency, quality management and so on, there is still a need in designing methodological and practical recommendations for realizing operationalization in company.      
So the present paper will examine the problem of the lack of model and standards of operationalization of strategy in company and mechanisms of interaction of business processes within company’s strategy.

Professional significance. The project proposal presents primary significance for managers at all levels. Especially it is of high interest for those managers and companies who are aimed to increase its effectiveness and have a competitive advantage in the market. 
It is also regarded that the project will bring better understanding of principles of strategy operationalization and its importance, and managerial skills in the sphere of operations management.
What is more the project will contribute to the better understanding of operations management by creating a business model canvas, which become the example of strategy operationalization, effective mechanisms of managing company’s divisions on the basis of process model and designing regulations and standards. The project is carried out in order to help companies to maintain stable positions in competition.         

Delimitations of the study. The research will be limited by the selection of only one company for the analysis of its realization a strategy operationalization. The initial goal of the study is to design a business model canvas, so that will be done on the example of a real business – hotel (“Art hotel “Dyagilev”) which operates in Perm city. 
Another limitation is concerned with the division of the company. The research excludes the interaction of hotel with other companies – partnership.        

Literature Review
This part of proposal will observe theoretical studies which provide a basis for the present work. In this project the major stages of operations management development will be studied because it is operations management which presents fundamentals for operationalization of strategy.
Problems of increasing an effectiveness of company’s activity and organization business processes in a right way have always intrigued scientists. In the present paper strategy operationalization will be studied as the way to solve these problems.
Frederick W. Taylor, who is known as the father of scientific management, has become the pioneer in creating efficient techniques of goods production. He was the first to demonstrate that management should be active and effective in improving company’s activity. His ideas summed up in the book “The principles of scientific management”. The ideas that Frederick Taylor proposed in this book are still used by contemporary management schools and became a basis for further researches in the field of optimization business processes.
Taylor’s colleagues – Henry L. Gantt and Lillian and Frank Gilbreth – have laid the foundation for standardization business processes in organization. They were working out methods which goal is to improve production processes systematically. The results of their researches, like Gantt chart, are still in use today. Though Gantt chart has underwent some changes according to modern technologies it remains a required instrument in automation business processing.  
Other scientific attainments in operations management are connected with quality management. For instance, Walter A. Shewhart combined his knowledge in statistics and the need of quality control. As the result in 1930-s he worked out a system of principles aimed to help companies to produce goods and services of high quality. This system was known as Shewhart scheme, later with the impact of other researches, including Edwards W. Deming, it was transformed into PDCA model (plan-do-check-act). It is also considered to be an effective instrument in operationalization and the basis of any business activity.
In 50-s operations management has become an independent scientific sphere concerned with organizational management. Since that time scientists all around the world have been trying to create universal methods and design models to increase company’s productivity. 
One of such researchers is George A. Steiner. In his “Strategic planning: what every manager must know” (1979) Steiner arises a problem of decomposition of strategy as the key factor of effective operationalization (p. 177). He claims that successful realization of any strategy supposes its division on substrategies.
Henry Minzberg in his study “Strategy safari” (1998) supports the idea that was claimed by George Steiner (p. 53) and defines the following substrategies, or mechanisms, as he identifies them:
mutual adjustment;
direct supervision;
standardization of work processes;
standardization of outputs;
standardization of skills;
standardization of norms.
Minzberg assumes that the number of these mechanisms can be bigger and he underlines that not their number matters but optimization of them in the context of company’s strategy.
In his study Henry Minzberg also offers a system of operations plans designed by researchers from Stanford University (p. 54), so called “master-plans” which determine a place of every division in company in the whole and its role in the production of final good or service. These plans help to get a deeper understanding of company’s structure, define the resources for growth and work out an effective optimization model of interconnections between divisions.
Another researcher of operations management is Les Galloway. In his study “Operations management: the basics” (1996) he defines what operations management is. His definition of operations management has become principal in the project. Thus, from Galloway’s point of view operations management is all activities in the company concerned with transformation resources into high-quality goods and services which are made accordingly with the common strategy of organization and at minimal costs. 
Correlation with company’s strategy is crucial because, for instance, air carrier oriented on low-cost services cannot offer services which are offered in high-cost segment as incomes would not cover their expenses.
There are also studies on operations management among russian researches. For instance, Vadim Livshits determines operations managers’ functions. Thus, according to his study there are three basic functions of operations managers (p. 43):
to work out a long run operations strategy of the company, which determine an optimal set of business processes, effective control systems and requirements for human and material resources; 
continuous improvement of business processes, and also motivation of company’s staff in order to increase effectiveness of operationalization and, as the consequence, the quality of services and productivity;
to manage everyday operations processes in such a way which will help to find solutions for strategic goals. 
Studies mentioned above and many other scientific works on operations management are based on knowledge from different spheres like mathematics, statistics, management and economics. So it represents a combinations of studies and results of these studies from different scientific spheres. This makes possible to use systematic analysis different data for improving achievements of operationalization. Operations management will continue to improve with new discoveries in other branches of science. 
It is also important to underline the contribution of information technologies to the development of operations management. Data processing, its systematization and classification, forecasting, planning, machine utilization inventory management and designing have become possible only with the application of information technologies in management at all organizational levels.
Though there is a large body of literature about operationalization, the problem is that it is mostly written for companies, which produce goods not services. It presents some difficulties to obtain the goals of the project.   

Methodology
In this part of the proposal will be told about the data to be analyzed and the methods to be used in carrying out the project.
In the first stage of the study will be collected and examined information about the features of strategic management and operations management in hospitality. This is considered to be an important step of the project because every industry has its features and adequate canvas model cannot be designed without considering these features.
The research is focused on the primary and secondary data about the analyzed company. These methods help to get a deeper understanding of company’s specificity and understand the contemporary business model of the organization and how its divisions interacts. It will also allow to define weak and strong points of the company and the ways of its growth.
Analytical methods will be combined with sociological. It is planned to conduct interviews with the staff of the hotel. It is assumed that interviews will be conducted with managerial staff and attending personnel. Interviews with managerial staff will help to examine how top management plan to realize or already realize strategy operationalization, what outcome they are expected to get and how they evaluate the significance of operationalization. Interviews with personnel aimed to examine how operationalization realized at different divisions and whether it is realized or not. It is expected that there will be about 20 interviews at all.

Results Anticipated
This part of the project proposal is dedicated to the results which are planned to be obtained within the methodology described earlier. 
As it was mentioned in introduction of this study the problem of modern management is the lack of models and standards of strategy operationalization. To solve this problem the particular company will be analyzed in terms of determined methodology. After completing this company’s analysis the effective business model canvas will be designed, standards and regulations will be written, mechanisms of interconnections between divisions defined. Thus, a set of instruments for strategy operationalization for particular company will be suggested. These instruments will be offered to company’s managers for further implementation. 
The results will be reported accurately and objectively. For example, some information will be presented in a form of diagrams to demonstrate relations between different data, some complex data will be given in tables, and all other results will be reported in the narrative text. The results may also include appendixes which will include some raw data.           

Conclusion
The importance of strategy operationalization is undoubted – it follows from what has been discussed in the present project proposal. However, how was already mentioned before, very few companies have adjusted operationalization models so there is a need to lay the basis for their implementation in company’s strategy. The project is devoted to the designing business models canvas, preparing regulations and standards and giving companies some recommendations on processing operation management.