Introduction
Background
Companies in different markets usually have their own distinctive features that form the market sector description. The strategic analysis methods and techniques allow the companies to obtain the information about the both internal and external factors that influence the organizational performance, assess the competitive advantages of the company and its rivals, and decide whether the current company’s position is more beneficial in comparison with other firms or not.
Every businessperson has to decide for himself what tools of strategic analysis have to be chosen within the market research context. The strategic analysis of the organization usually helps companies in terms of the strategy construction, and its further assessment and improvement. However, this type of analysis is of high importance to executives as it provides reliable and complex information that may be used in new companies’ creation and launching. 

Problem statement
The main aim of the research is to make a strategic analysis of car wash market in Perm in order to create a new business structure. Thus, the objectives of the study may be defined as following: 
to define the terms strategic analysis;
to examine the main methods and techniques of the strategic analysis;
to choose the most appropriate strategic analysis methods in order to apply them in the following study;
to conduct the strategic analysis of car wash market in Perm with the use of the methods chosen;
to process the results obtained during the research;
to make a financial plan for the new business on the base of the data obtained;
to derive conclusions on the study and provide recommendations for creating  a new business structure.

Delimitations of the Study
The main delimitation of the study is that it is going to be conducted within the car wash market that is the very narrow segment of the car service market. Thus, the results obtained during the study may be applied for a new business creation only in the investigated market sector. 
The other delimitation is that the car wash market of the Perm-city will be investigated during the research process. This means that there is low possibility that the outcomes of the study will be of use to companies and businesspersons of other regions and countries in terms of results implementation. 

Professional Significance
The professional significance of the study is that it will allow the current market analysis in the car wash segment in Perm, and it will probably show its distinctive features and other peculiarities. Moreover, the results obtained and processed during the investigation may give the clear understanding of the state of the market under the research. Thus, this will give a basis for the successful business creation.

Definitions of Key Terms
PESTEL analysis – “involves the collection and portrayal of information about external factors which have, or may have, an impact on business” (Rothaermel, 2012, p. 57). 
Porter’s five forces analysis – “this model identifies and analyzes 5 competitive forces that shape every industry, and helps determine an industry's weaknesses and strengths” (Porter’s five forces analysis, Investopedia, 2015).
Strategic analysis – “the process of developing strategy for a business by researching the business and the environment in which it operates” (Strategic analysis, Business Dictionary, 2015).

Literature Review
The strategic analysis is a matter of investigation to various scientists and researchers. There are a lot of definitions to the strategy. Grant (2010) suggests that strategy only sets the direction to people and organizations, but not the detailed action plan. Chandler (1990) claims that strategy helps to achieve the effectiveness in short-term and long-term periods with the use of various companies’ resources. Thus, it can be stated that strategy is the direction of companies actions aimed at the organizational competitiveness and overall effectiveness improvement. 
A number of researchers has also explored the term strategic analysis. There are some patterns in those definitions in terms of strategy formulation and construction, external and internal analysis of the organization, and the methods that may be used during the process of strategic analysis (Downey, 2007). The methods and tools of strategic analysis provide various information to the managers and executives. It has to be noted that the strategic analysis may be conducted for the company as well as for the market segment with the use of the same methods and techniques. Thus, the main advantages of the strategic analysis are (Downey, 2007):
it allows the comprehensive analysis of the internal and external environment of the organization or a market;
the strategic analysis  defines the influence of factors on the organization or a market;
it provides a wide range of techniques, methods and tools that allow the detailed analysis.
However, strategic analysis has disadvantages:
time-consuming – the comprehensive and overall analysis of the company or a market may require a lot of time-investment in order to provide the high quality of analysis;
financial investments – when conducting the strategic analysis the company should remember that it may require some financial investments;
the qualitative research methods applied in the strategic analysis may be biased and vague to some extent, so that the analysis has to be done accurately for it then to be used in further research.
Various methods of strategic analysis enable the comprehensive analysis of the organization as well as the market sector:
SWOT- analysis – helps to analyze the internal and external factors in terms of internal strengths and weaknesses and external opportunities and threats. This type of analysis is usually used for companies’ business strategy evaluation. The main advantages of SWOT are that it is simple to conduct and it is not costly for the organization – the structure of SWOT allows making the analysis without any specific skills and qualifications. However, there are some disadvantages of this tool in terms of the absence of weighing factors and the high subjectivity level (Nordmeyer, 2015);
PEST-analysis – considers only external factors in the market sector, i.e. political, economic, socio-cultural and technological factors. There are a lot of PEST modifications, when some other factors are taken into account. For example, PESTEL includes ecological and legal factors, STEEPLED considers two more factors – ethical and demographic (Jurevicius, 2013). There are also other factors that may be distinguished during PEST-analysis, e.g. local, national and global. It has to be said that PEST analysis involves macro factors that influence  both the industry and the company;
Porter’s five forces analysis – the analysis of the external environment that consists of five main forces influencing the company and the industry. These are the power of supplier and customer, the threat of new players in the market, the existing substitutes and the level of competition among the firms in the industry. Within this type of analysis the influence of factors may be assessed in terms of the number of suppliers, customers and competitors; the quality of good and services and their substitutes; the differences between prices of rivals; the existing barriers to entry (the investments amount, the market type, the number and market share of main companies);
Value chain analysis – enables the company to create a value chain for its customers. This, in turn, increases the effectiveness of the company and its profits due to the increase in customers’ loyalty and morale. There are three stages of value chain analysis. Firstly, the companies’ business processes have to be divided into primary and support processes. The primary process is that creates a product itself, and the support process facilitates the primary process. Secondly, the cost of each process has to be evaluated and assessed for it to be optimal for the organization. Finally, the critical success factors have to be identified in order to satisfy customer needs more efficiently.
Those are not all methods of strategic analysis that may be used in the investigation process. However, it has to be mentioned, that the variety of the methods correlates with the range of different market situations where they could have possibly been used. The use of several tools in the investigations will provide reliable data and the wide range of factor assessing the market structure from the point of view of the strategic management and analysis.

Methods
In the research, the following methods are going to be used. Firstly, the literature analysis is going to be conducted in order to get a deeper understanding of the issue, i.e. the methods and tools of strategic analysis. This will allow getting the reliable information about the ways of tools usage and the results further implementation in the new business creating process.
Another method that will be used in the investigation is the PESTEL analysis. This type of strategic analysis will provide the information about the market segment external environment. For example, this analysis may provide the information about Political, Economic, Socio-cultural and Technical external factors that may influence the market sector either negatively or positively. The use of this strategic analysis method will allow the defining those factors that influence the car wash market negatively and try to give recommendation taking into account possible ways of their elimination. 
One more research method is Porter’s five forces analysis that will allow describing the car wash market sector from the points of view of the competition level, the power of suppliers and customers, the possibility of new rivals entering the market, and the substitutes to the service that is under the investigation. 
Finally, the critical success factor method refers to the definition of those processes that reflect the overall success of the organization during its performance in the market. The success factors indicating process will allow the company to understand its core business-functions more efficiently.
The results of the study are planned to be processed into the recommendations that will help in further research.  In addition, these recommendations will allow accurate operationalization of the investigation results onto the car wash market sector. 

Results Anticipated
The results of the study may be the following. Firstly, it is anticipated that the Porter’s Five Forces analysis will have the following structure: there is a big possibility of the new rivals coming in the car wash market due to the low capital expenditures during the launch if new organization. The power of suppliers is low either, as the main resources for the car wash business is water and the personnel; however, there may be a problem with the detergent suppliers. The customers’ power is suggested to be at a high level as the more the client is satisfied with the car wash service, the higher the probability for him or her to return. 
Within the context of PESTEL analysis, the results of the study reflect a sum of external environment factors influencing the organization. For example, the influence of the current political system will be considered from the Political point of view. Moreover, PESTEL analysis will provide the data about the overall market sector.
The last result anticipated is that every company in the car wash market in Perm has critical success factors that are universal to other companies within the industry.

Conclusions
The conclusions of the study are the following. Strategic analysis is an important step in the organizational and market analysis. It allows defining the internal and external factors that may have both positive and negative influences on the company and the market sector. The variety of methods and strategic tools allow getting a wide range of qualitative data.
The main methods used in the strategic analysis are SWOT-analysis, PEST-analysis and its variations, Porter’s five forces analysis, the chain analysis and four corner’s analysis. All these tools have both advantages and disadvantages; however, the universal disadvantage for these methods is that the data obtained with their help may be vague to some extent. Thus, one cannot be sure that the results have not been biased in some ways. 
The methods that are going to be applied in the research provide the set of qualitative data useful for the further creation of new business structure. The other companies operating in the same market sector or those aimed at business expansion may use the results obtained during the study.