Introduction
In modern world the supply chain at the enterprise attracts more and more attention to the shareholders and owners of companies. Organization of the procurement process, not only has a significant impact on the industrial activity of the enterprise, but also serves as an effective tool to distribution of material flows and achieves the strategic goals of the company. To stay competitive in the future, companies have to reduce the cost of supply chain. The company may receive permanent bonuses the expense of building complex partnerships with reliable suppliers and to create more strategic domestic supply.

Background. The problem of supply chain management is of particular interest in the system of logistics management. The efficiency of the supply chain depends on the price of consumer goods, if the company does not have the material resources to the required deadline, with adequate quality and at a reasonable price, the final cost of the product can lead to wasteful production. For that reason it is crucial to systematically analyze the supply activities of the enterprise to highlight unprofitable business processes. (Leenders M., Johnson P., Flynn A. & Fearon H., 2002).

Problem Statement. The aim of the proposed study is to analyze the supply chain effectiveness at the enterprise and to elaborate recommendations for the company. In order to reach the goal and to answer to the research questions it is need 9to get the following objectives:
to study the theoretical basis of the supply chain;
to explore the methods described in the literature for use them in the analysis of supply chain effectiveness at the enterprise;
to make conclusions after analysis;
to provide the practice advice for applying results obtained.

Professional significance. This research does not imply the application of scientific novelty of tasks in the field of research. This study is based on the practical side of the issue. We will use the proven methods for evaluating the effectiveness of the supply chain. The practical significance lies in the fact that in the particular company we will assess the effectiveness of supply chain management that determines the quality of the final products and services. We will try to improve the business processes of the enterprise supply chain. Subsequently, these improvements will be offered to the company's management, which may take them into account.

Delimitations of the study. In present paper, we would like to focus on answering the question: how the various business processes of the supply chain affect on the company's operations. Research questions are:
What methods of assessment of the supply system used in Russia?
What methods are used by foreign companies?
What types of supplies are used at the studied enterprise?
What is the concept of supply at the studied enterprise?
What are the problem areas of the supply chain at the studied enterprise?
The main body of the study is structured further: first, a literature review section is presented. Then, methodology and procedures are described. After, follow results anticipated. 

Literature review
A large body of academic literature and logistic business publications including Internet research and the resources are employed to insights into the essence and value of supply chain effectiveness provide the basis of the present study.
Different scholars introduce and teach how to improve supply chain through their works and research studies. For a long time, those studies were mostly confined to general issues and were largely theoretical. Though a relatively new feature, nevertheless this position gains strong support and often appears in academic argument which signifies a profound shift in emphasis and attempts to decrease the discrepancy theory and reality. Among numerous investigations we can identify the main approaches to study the effectiveness of the supply chain.
D.  and D.  (1996) are known for their work on integrated supply chain process. They studied the optimal timing delivery of material resources and finished products. The delay in procurement may disrupt the production schedule, which entails large overhead. This approach makes it necessary to clearly define the time of delivery.
The second approach observes an exact match between the volume of shipments and demand for the product. Excess or insufficient volume of delivered products adversely effects on working capital balance and stability of production. The advocates of this approach believe that the necessary data are presented in the scope of shipments. (Leenders M., Johnson P., Flynn A. & Fearon H., 2002)
Another method evaluates products, materials or services that are must be at the required quality level, otherwise the final product will not meet the standards. This will lead to increased logistics costs. It will allow clearly structuring supply system in the company, which has specific quality standards. Most of the large modern companies use this approach for customer affairs. Subsequently the company improves financial results. ( D. &  D., 1996)
The effectiveness of logistics supply management is primarily determined by the best operation of financial, material and other types of resources. The effective use of these resources is achieved by solving a large number of optimization problems. One of the most common problems is the definition of EOQ (Economic order quantity). This notion is associated with surveys about optimal level of product order. This model allows optimizing the supply so that there is no shortage of goods, at the same time to minimize the cost of storage.
M. Christopher (2001) provided relevant bibliography of the publications on the subject in the supplement to the article «Logistics and Supply Chain Management: Strategies for Reducing Costs and Improving Services». There are three main indicators, by which control the activities of the supply chain management: time, price and reliability of supplier. Time control implies control of the detained shipments as well as the consequences of delays. These indicators should be analyzed:
The share of backorders;
The proportion of cases of the delay in delivery caused by significant scarcity of material resources and finished products in stock;
The number of production shutdowns as the result of the delayed delivery time.
According to V. Setgueyev (2005) the assessment of the supply chain effectiveness is commonly based on the competent suppliers finding in Russia. The research on this subject includes four methods for selecting suppliers. These methods correlate with M. Christopher’s indicators which are controlled by the activities of the supply chain management. 
Ratings Supplier selection. It is the most common method of choosing a supplier. First of all company is choosing the main criteria for selecting the supplier and then procurement service sets their importance with the help of experts.
Supplier selection on the expenditure estimates. The monitoring process of supply is divided into several options. Expenses and revenues are calculated for each of them. Eventually, researchers receive data for supplier comparison and selection. 
Supplier selection on the dominant characteristics. This notion stems from studies of the method in which one criterion was selected for evaluating supplier. The lowest price, best quality, delivery schedule and others can be parameters of the method.
Supplier selection on the preference categories. In this case, supplier assessment, including the choice of the method of its evaluation depends on the information flowing from many parts of the firm. Unfortunately, this method is applied to the suppliers with whom the company has already worked.
These methods of supplier selection are universal and can be used in various concepts and in different enterprises. These methods of supplier selection are widely used in conception JIT. This notion stems from studies of Just-in-time manufacturing. R. Ballou (1992) mentioned the concept as «This concept changed the car market in Japan». The emergence of this concept refers to the end of the 1950s, when the Japanese company Toyota Motors has begun to actively implement the system production optimization. Based on this concept, the company does not have reserves. Therefore suppliers should strictly follow the schedule of deliveries. Otherwise, failure to comply with the delivery schedule will lead to stocks of raw materials and finished products.
One of the key studies is the article by J. Jonson and D. Wood (1990).  The authors think that it is impossible to examine the effectiveness of the supply chain at the enterprise by one criterion. It means, in determining the effectiveness of procurement operations need to comprehensively assess the work of supply chain management. M. Leenders, P. Johnson, A. Flynn & H. Fearon (2002) have worked out different sets of procurement operations. These set includes:
Tracking execution of the procurement plan for the volume and quality indicators;
Implementation of the company budget and the level of savings;
Monitoring of the volume and the value of lost sales.
Tracing the activity of purchasing department, it is possible to judge the effectiveness of its operation, and to identify existing problem points. 
Based on the fact that it is developing sphere, from a theoretical point of view during the precise studying, the majority of current theories seem to be controversial. Additionally, these projects cannot stand up under criticism, especially the framework suggested. In this paper we do not want to doubt in the presented methods and we will try to apply them into practice.

Methodology
This part of the project gives special emphasis to the analysis of data. Here it is necessary to describe the data to be analyzed, and the methods to be used in carrying out the study. To assess the data submitted by the company demands using ratio analysis it is necessary to evaluate the effectiveness of the supply chain. This method is based on the cross-sectional indicators. Ratio analysis is performed for a particular period therefore it is essential to select the period for which the data will be analyzed. We use ratio analysis because this method does not require time-consuming to perform and have precise calculation algorithm. To study the supply chain effectiveness at the enterprise it seems to be reasonable to follow this structure: 
Data collection is fundamental to the analysis of supply chain effectiveness. , , invoices and accounts will been accumulated through the dialog with the employees and through the analysis of the enterprise.
Values of calculated indices are crucial to investigate supply chain effectiveness at the enterprise. There are a number of indices for the investigation of the supply chain. We will use , , optimum order quantity, .
To select the best supplier, we will use method M. Christopher (1998)   Supplier selection by ratings. This method is simple to use. We will evaluate supplier on several factors: price, location, reliable delivery, productive capacity and financial state.
Analysis of obtained data and amplification of guidelines.
The research design foregrounds concern about external factors such as: the weather conditions, the time frame, location of the consumers etc. These factors are uncontrolled. Therefore, we cannot be fully confident in the adequacy of the received data. According to this methodology will take a definite shape as the study is progressing.

Results anticipated
This part of the proposal is organized to report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. We hope that studied company will provide all necessary information to analyze supply system for this research. We are sure that we get the full picture of the supply system using dedicated methods.
We are going to check a following hypothesis: whether there is statistically significant positive trend to familiarity the procurement department with suppliers of the enterprise.
In this project we anticipate to get the following results: to indicate weaknesses in the supply chain, to demonstrate how to analyze supply chain effectiveness.

Conclusion
To sum up, we would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. This paper has discussed the approaches of logistic scholars and some their advocates. The problem of the study is to analyze the supply chain performance in the company. It follows from discussed above that there are various approaches to assess supply chain effectiveness such us: methods of choosing a supplier or method optimal timing delivery of material resources and finished products. We used these methods to evaluate the supply chain effectiveness. This paper has discussed the approaches of logistic scholars and some their advocates.