 good morning dear audience .. my name is  i'm a student of 11th grade in school number sixty five today I'm going to introduce my research work zero waste programme in Russia and abroad so let's start . today scientists highlight the so called global problems of mankind obviously one of the most important of them is ecological problem . being interested in ecological issues i'd like to do something significant for improving this ecological situation on the planet . i have learnt that there is a movement called zero waste which is aimed at introducing waste that people leave . i decided to study this movement thoroughly and see if zero waste lifestyle is possible or not . i need to say that the theme of my research work is quite relevant in realities of our world as the ecological problems facing society now are the concern of everybody who lives on Earth . my theme is also of great importance as it is aimed to focus the attention of the public towards environmental problems . the purpose of my research is to identify if zero waste lifestyle is possible and what can be done by ordinary people to change the ecological situation on the planet . the methods of my research are collecting data . quantitative survey questionnary the analysis of the survey and personal experience . so today the Earth is currently facing lots of the environmental problems . the poisoning of the world's land air and water is the fastest spreading disease off our civilisation . different environmental groups all around the world will play a big role in protecting life on our planet . one of the environmental and social group movement is zero waste movement . adopting a zero waste lifestyle is one of the most sustainable ways of living . the term zero waste was first publicly declosed in the nineteen seventies in Oakland California . today the popuarity of the movement continues to grow . zero waste have significant benefits for environment and economy . zero waste movement is focused on solving different problems but however the most dangerous thing for our planet is plastic . plastic is everywhere . we like we love it because it is a waterproof cheap and durable . but most people really think about the effect it has on the environment . and like other materials it never really goes away and cause dramatic poisoning of the world's land and water . during my research i made this survey and asked several questions to more than two hundred people from different ages from fourteen to seventy five years old living in Russia the USA and Canada . according to the results of the survey we can see that most of the respondents are aware of environmental problems and most of the respondents . about eighty four per cent in Russia and more than ninety per cent abroad know that their daily habits affect the environment . nevertheless every second of them in Russia and more than ss seventy five per cent abroad . don't ready to refuse th these habits to improve the ecological situation . also we can see that most of the respondents don't know anything about zero waste movement .. there are different ways one can practise zero waste lifestyle . tips everyone can use to move towards zero waste . movement are refuse reduce use recycle and  . now i'd like to share my personal experience of participating in zero waste movement . it all started by examining plastic packages . i found out the information that film is not recyclable and i was astonished by the fact that practically all food and supermarket is wrapped into film . nearly everything i usually buy the supermarket is sold into plastic . i got shocked by the number of plastic you use every day so i came up with simple experiment . i decided to cut the amount of waste and refuse in a number of non recyclables . my experiment lasted for week. firstly i bought a clothes back for shopping . secondly i stopped buying food at the supermarket and instead of it i went to shopping to the market to located five minutes walk from my house . in order to avoid using plastic bags for food i bought ecobags are made from clothe online . it was unusual for shop assistants not to put food for sale into plastic bags but I was persistent and they got used to it . also i stopped using plastic bottles for water . i replaced them with a steel one which can be used for years . i started thinking about the college of my everyday life . i read a lot about the ways to minimise using chemicals at home . for example i started washing dishes with the help of soda .. (eh) finally i tried to buy a less amount of food to avoid throwing the left always away . despite all the taken measures i can't but mentioned all the difficulties i had to face . first of all i couldn't find all the ingredients needed without plastic packaging in one place . it took long time to go from shop to shop . in search of them . also a lot of goods in plastic are much cheaper . i also couldn't avoid using shampoo shower gel tooothpaste and so on without plastic packaging as all the alternatives are not easy to find . they are expensive or must be made by ourselves out of natural ingredients . but .. (erm) oh sorry . to summarise the all mentioned above . i have come to the conclusion that . i am really satisfied in my abilit=ability . i really satisfied and I'm confident in my ability to maintain my new lifestyle . i have come to the conclusion that I achieved the purpose of my research work and i improved that zero waste lifestyle is possible but it is a long process and need a lot of efforts and preparation . but now I'm surely can say that zero waste movement is an excellent way to improve the ecological situation on our planet and every person can participate in it . so thank you for your attention. 
well maybe I can yeah . make my little comments . thank you .  that was a very impressive talk. you very emotional and it was obvious that you're very passionate about this topic. (erm) . (erm) .. my question . well maybe it's not a kind of a question . it's (erm) a little suggestion that might make you talk even more . impressive . and that my (erm) that might in future (erm) make others join this movement . is that thing you talk would be much more convenient if you add some (erm) numbers saying that . okay I've tried to live one week without zero waste . and look before I (erm) I used to throw away (ah) . let's say three kilos of plastic every day . I don't know. how much did he used to do that? I just (erm) and now I'm throwing zero . so if we multiply three by the number of people in Russia . then we will save this amount of plastics and . for serious adult people who take decisions that would be much more convenient . (ah) much more . let's say (erm) . convincing . yeah but it was really interesting to see how much effort you've made on this work and that . you have asked so many people about their . experience .. but maybe one question do you think (um) .. how easily your experience could be generalised to all the people? for example . now you're still at school but maybe (ah) . mommies and daddies with three or four children who are running . late from their work . (ah) would care less about buying something in plastic . they would just have no time on going even . (ah) . very nearby market . so what can we make about people having (ah) . that are running out of time 
 I need to say that my mom was like these parents like you said . she . (um) always buy food  supermarkets because it is more convenient to her . she cant to go to local shops . but when I start this . my research work . I share my ideas with her and step by step . he make made the little decisions like she put her now. food like vegetables and fruits in eco box . it doesn't took time to put not to plastic bag but eco bag . but it also refuse plastic in our home . she also stopped to using plastic bottles . be stopped using the straws for drinks at home . (um) . adopting a zero waste lifestyle . and it's not about always about some difficult decisions and some . (uh) ... more time spending on it . I think every person can do little . that's why I put this quote on my slide on screen . we don't need the one hundred people doing it perfectly because every person can do little and it will be excellent . for the whole world
so thank you so much . yes well . differently . zero waste programme is a very effective solution because we should start doing something from ourselves on good and effective solution. trying to be more maybe environmental (erm) environment conscious right and . well . lifestyles that can be changed . yes . that is a perfect way to go out of the situation we are currently facing . but still what do you think? well . in your view . well. can we say that there should have been more government campaigns? well . about doing something about trying to . initiate the zero waste program at a governmental level
yes . (ah) . a lot off (erm) activists of zero waste movement from foreign countries . they came with their decisions . different solutions to the government . and it really helps in the local places like in the city . maybe in the region . (um) but in our country . it is kind of difficult to do that . but if more and more people joined this movement . it will be easily . and it will be easily to view this problem and view people who joined this movement . and yes . I think it started by ourselves . but then when the there are there will be a lot of people joined this movement . it will be on government level
and to what extent you think education institutions such as schools lyceum gymnasiums well being involved into the same movement
oh I think . in school it is . rather helpful to . maybe teacher children. about ecological situation about ways . how they can make their lifestyle more environmental friendly . what can be done by them to help our planet to. solve some problems . and there is a kind of it in the course of biology . but I don't think it is enough I would like to be . more information about it maybe not more information about problems . more information about the solution of these problems 
 well . as I have understood that the main problems of zero waste movement is that some people are not aware of it and some people are not able to afford this type of lifestyle . and I would like to ask  about her suggestions on how to solve these problems 
 I have said . the main as for me . the main part of this movement is to tell people more and more about this movement about the solutions of environmental problems (er) it can be told in school . or maybe in such places like conferences . oh and I think people think that they couldn't refuse their habits . to move with the zero is movement is why? because they don't know what they can do . they don't know that it is really simple decisions . really simple steps they can do . and so they think it is too difficult for them . but that's only because they are not enough aware of it. 

