 good afternoon my name is  . I'm a student of the eleventh grade of the  .. in my report today I would like to consider the russian segment of twitch as a cultural phenomenon .. and analyze (er) the way it functioned to their support . during the first phase of the covid-19 lockdown .. in my research (er) I used the original surface and started the statistical data on this topic … to begin with .. twitch is a multi-genre entertainment platform . that offers to all people . regardless of gender . age or profession to embody their creative potential ..according to the main page of . twitch .. the main function of this platform is (er) the role of a communication tool between people . in order to provide extensive content .. streaming on twitch is divided into game and non-game types .. the game type includes directly game playthroughs . and e-sports events .. the non-game type . usually it means in real-life streams . includes six sections .. music .. talkshows .. sports .. travel and outdoors .. just chatting .. food and drink .. special events … before the period of self-isolation . the Russian segment of twitch was rather undeveloped .. (em) the game categories were on top .. just chatting was quite unpopular .. besides .. most streamers were single broadcast without any cooperation .. only top russian steamers had a good advertising offers . but less professional streamers often took unfair contracts (er) to advertise roulette games and lotteries .. the maximum online traffic rarely exceeded twenty thousand people ... the turning point for this platform .. and in particular for its russian segment was the self isolation [X] during the first wave of the covid-19 lockdown ... as Joel Forester notes in the article covid-19 lockdown leads to a twenty four per cent increase in twitch viewership .. one engagement metric to quantify twitch is the total number of viewers on the stream which have seen a sharp rise as businesses close . homeworking begins and full lockdowns have been implemented … the audience of the russian segment of twitch has increased twice or thrice .. the maximum online have reach one hundred thousand viewers and regularly the top streamers were watched on broadcast by forty fifty thousand people ...  such significant growth in audiences (er) has been a catalys= a catalyst for many processes .. first of all . many talented creators found out about the platform . and came to it to .. express themself and their creative potential ... as noted above . the social aspect for twitch if not the main one then the dominant  .. communication between the participants of the stream .. is the basis (er) for which the platform exists ... so . for the  best results streamers decided to join in groups (er) squads ... in the common sense squad is an association of people connected by similar views . goals and preferences .. for example . they conduct .. (er) steam broadcast exclusively in the same format or within the same category .. despite the fact that squads are a special manifestation of communication (er) in which all three forms of communication are possible .. between streamers and the audience .. separately between streamers and separately between audiences (er) in the russian segment of twitch (er) there are quite of them .. (er) the most well-known is (er) eighty-nine squad and freak squad … I would like to elaborate on one of the most striking examples . of a typical creative association of the russian segment . namely the activity of the freak squad . organized by the streamer evelone192 .. known as Vadim Kazakov in late March and early April two thousand twenty ... today it includes (er) thirty-three participants . but at the time of the creation (er) there were only about six people including the organizer himself … so .. using his example we can talk not only about the squad as a means of communication between streamers . but also as a means of attracting more attention (er) to less . well-known (er) but no less worthy streamers ... we can mention not only the effectiveness . there is a kind of audience exchange .. but also about the humanistic nature of this kind of communication … thirdly . the increase in the audience of the successful entertainment platform . during the lockdown also contribute development gender diversity . which attracted attention of a larger audience .. as soon as the number of squads has increased significantly . it became possible . to expand each entertainment program . The day was divided into three main shifts (er) between different streamers .. for example . in the first half of the day conversation and entertainment streams . such as  were allocated .. (er) the middle of the day and its second half .. were devoted to play-throughs . and the evening was all about talk shows . and . various events were held in parallel .. with the most massively viewed play-throughs of the games . such as CS:GO . Among Us . Fall Guys . etcetera .. group communication games . among which mafia . bunker and world domination (er) became very popular .. the just chatting category became the leading one . which resulted in the . creation of various podcasts . such as (er) blablacast . created by Dina Blin .. and the organisation of  joined views of films . TV series . anime and cartoons ... in addition to the fact that the activities of the squad . attracted the attention of many thousands of people . (er) PR companies also drew attention to them .. advertising as an indicator of time has clearly manifested itself in various forms on streams .. from calling for the purchase of real and virtual things to using different online services . such as Yandex . Dodo Pizza . SkillBox etcetera .. and streamers thus acted as media personalities and influences .. in conclusion . I would like to point out a direct connection between (er) the decline in the activity of russian segment . and the end of the period of lockdown of the first wave of covid-19 .. however . even during the not so long period of the first wave one can analyse the way twitch developed as an example of just only one squad whose main activity was (er) on april may two thousand twenty .. as a result . there appeared a greater branching and complexity of the structure of the squat (er) like holding streams in shifts .. the expansion of the . entertainment program . for instance . the appearance of new categories and shows . and of course . the increase in the audience and (er) advertisers interested in their activities ... thank you for your attention .. I'm ready to answer your questions 
 well thank you .. hot topic indeed .. especially given the pandemic conditions and .. all the consequences thereof .. okay .. please . do you have any questions to the speaker 
 it is a very very specific (er) social media and (er) I'm very excited that you have chosen twitch instead of Instagram which is more popular . or maybe clubhouse which appeared just now .. so . why did you choose twitch mainly  
 (er) I think twitch (er) is the platform that gives you (em) a feeling that you are connecting with all the .. (er) people and the streamer himself .. or herself (er) you can connect (er) at the moment . and (er) it feels like you have friends and .. people (er) who can discuss (em) issues and different topics with you  
 yes but I think that Facebook . is the same .. in this sense because it also connects people and so on … but still . it’s a very nice idea .. maybe it is because twitch is a very . narrowly segmented . so . it is oriented to a very particular audience .. as you have presented .. how do you think .. does twitch effective for business and for which kind of business twitch may be mostly effective 
 yeah . I think twitch affects business a lot (er) because .. as i said .. PR companies and businesses (er) understand that (er) streamers (er) strong inferences (er) and people can (er) can see and want to buy something .. or use . some .. services .. I think  
 okay . thank you . thank you very much 
  I’m sorry we cannot hear you 
 it’s .. you’re getting technical issues today .  but it’s just natural to talk about platforms right . so  once again . you did mention one point in your report . the humanistic side of the platform .. now . in view of that . excuse me of that consideration . how do you see the future of such platforms .. do you think they are likely to ultimately replace face-to-face communication . or is it going to be the other way around 
 (er) I think (er) it will be . an opportunity for people who can= cannot connect with their friends (er) to be in touch . but I don't think (er) that (er) it will replace face-to-face connection . because it can be (er) an extra motivation to meet people in real life so yeah 
 ok .  thank you very much indeed . any other questions from the audience  any questions from you . please  
 sorry I joined late 
 I see . after the report . unless there are any more questions from the audience let me thank the speaker 
