 speaker today is  who is going to talk about animation as a mean of (eh) self-expression 

 (eh) good afternoon ladies and gentlemen . (er) my name is  and I am a student of Perm school seven .  before I start my presentation I want to ask you several (eh) questions . (er) if your answer is yes rise your hands please . (eh) have you ever watched (eh) animation cartoon .. do you have a favorite one .. have you ever thought about how your favorite cartoons are created .. (uhu) and have you ever dreamed (er) to creating some like this .. (er) whether or no the title of my presentation is animation as a way of self-expression and if you . and even if you don’t know what to answer today I will (er) .. I will show you (er) .. how animation (er) is created (eh) and give you the key to the mystery of the success of (er) most famous animated films and movies … (er) just imagine the situation . you watch your favorite cartoon . you are impressed discussing it with friends acquaintances and now you are huge decide to creating something like this . you admire characters and their behavior and (eh) (er) you feel huge range of emotions from  joy tragic sadness pity humility empathy and all these is the work of . of huge teams (eh) which created this animated story . and also all these are identified a certain problem … (er) and I tried to learn what animation is . to learn how man can create something of their own related to (er) their tastes … (er) while working on the project I developed a following qualities . (er) since it is still new and  topic for me .  working on the project I was always looking for new information during the resolution of the main problem . (er) I am also developing a perceptual understanding of basic means of animation (er) in making quality content that you can share with others . furthermore I was creating thinking skills to analyze how to solve problem effectively and in accordance (er) with any age of children .. while working on my project I also studied how to express ourselves confidently through animation how to show our ides and points of view (eh) through the actions and behavior of characters . besides I tried to save physical (er) emotional and intellectual balance during the (eh) creating things which would effect on the perceptions of others .. so my project is divided on two parts  identify problem (erm) .. create an idea and a (er)  organization (er) and  realization . firstly I look into the topic from two different sides from side of a child and a side from animator professional of his  . (er) for animator it’s (er) first of all a synthesis of art . (er) it is a work where the main thing is to bring your ideas and points of view through the animations to the audience . (er) to show (er) the movements of character his behavior and intimations .    all these shows how good animator played as an actor and (er) .. we see it through the expressiveness of poses and certain gestures .. (er) it is also important to use it in real cartoon makers work . after all this this is what can set   moved to your work and also to impress (er) the viewer . in my opinion the most interesting part is (eh) the way of drawing (eh) (er) that has been chosen by (eh) the author .  because it could give originality to the work and (er) .. and  interest the viewer . (er) of course the way of editing are it’s very  is very important because it can bring a logic into (eh) work of animator . (er) from the side of a child especially (eh) something that (eh) interests (eh) and also (eh) it’s some (eh) something  and some work you want to create but (eh) hard to implement . (er) so with help of this (eh) spiece of artists of mainly (eh) creative people  who do make images which consequently affect on our perception . and the right usage of all of these methods (er) from the spierce by animators determines the level of their skills through which they express their ideas . (er) .. and convey them (er) to the viewer ... but what can  skills should real animator have .  to test to test this questions I tried to find (er) out and mastered myself ... (er) well all these skills I started to develop by watching Animator’s Survival Kit by Richard Williams . Richard Williams is a father of plastic  animations . so his lectures I have viewed on this site and (er) .. (er) it have played a major role in developing my skills as a beginner animator ... and to start a color theory I have (eh) learned Color Choices by Stephen Quiller . (er) this book focuses on (eh) color senses and how to bring your (er) own (er) repertoire of colors in your work . and I recommend this two sources if you want to (eh) create your animated (eh) movie .. (er) but time of learning is up and I begin to created something by myself . (eh) to create my animation I used Stop Motion studio which can be downloaded from Google Play or App Store ... as you can see that’s all you need to create your animated movie you just need (eh) desk (eh) (eh) desk lamp paper background you can print it or draw by yourself and also you can (er) see that you need  as a character of your story .. (er) .. that’s all that you need and I think that you agree with me that it’s very easy to create such animation because you can do it even if you can’t draw .. (er) here is the result of my animation . (er) I want to show you
Animation is playing
 so also I can (eh) . do animation in (eh) program  . (eh) it’s also (eh) . interesting to do it (eh) (er) if (eh) you are keen on drawing (eh) you just need you phone and sketch animation on it . (eh) and this is an example of my digital (eh) animation … (eh) so (eh) after finally creating my little cartoon I draw (eh) for following conclusions  while the working on the project I tried to combine a person (eh) who looks (eh) at the animation as a child and as (eh) .. a person who looks at the animation as a creator . (eh) it’s a combination of a (eh) passionate desire to do something and a choice of right techniques (eh) as appropriate tools to achieve a goal . (eh) consequently consequently I want to study (er) this (er) .. thing well and to do some master classes and this is my favorite part of my project because I can share it with others and also to .. (er) .. to begin something new and unusual . however the most valuable thing (er) which I realized through this project is that animation is a projection of real life and (eh) the .. (eh) .. and (eh) .. this is the secret of well-known animation animated movies and cartoons when the animator has a (eh) confident dialogue with viewer and people accept those who had a competent and interesting dialogue . these works allow peoples their vital understandable and (eh) each person find in them a part of them .. thank you for your attention 
 thank you for the presentation and amazing cartoons .. there are any questions
 yeah  ... (eh) thank you and my question is (eh) why have you called away scientific what scientific methods do you use did you use while (eh) doing this .. where there is none of them in the research 
 (eh) speaking about scientific methods I (erm) .. (er) .. I was in searching of (eh) information how people can developed certain skills and I think it’s very important because in (er) .. in every project and work it’s scientific or not (er) it’s very important to know what skills you need and what methods you should choice to do the work 
  
  
  
  
 okay any other questions ... yes 
 
 (er) it`s really hard to answer but  is (er) of course  animations such as Snowhite (erm) .. yes 
 okay any other questions 
  well as our panel is called social studies (er) I would like to switch (er) our attention  to the social part of cartoons  .. (er) could you please share your opinion about (er) the way  in which society influences (er) cartoons maybe content of cartoons
  (uhu) 
  (uhu) 
 of course . (erm) .. (er) ..  during (er) .. the time (er) the animation (er) .. (er) developed with society (er) so it`s (er) . always suits to the interest of people and also it rises moral different moral standards and (er) also animation teach (er) to teach people (er) and (er) (mm) and (er) .. show (er) them .. (er) how .. (er) (er) .. (er) maybe moral ideals and (er) .. especially for children these ideals become (er) the heroes of their lives
 in the previous presentation we saw just a perfect example of it in social media   
  well perfect example but the idea  
 okay thank you very much 

