it gives me great pleasure to open our session and. invite  who is going to. talk about the relevance of Samuel Huntington's theory about the clash of civilizations to Russian to Russia's position in the modern modern world. so is  here.
yes I'm here.
yes you're welcome .. please begin.
(mhm) so I have some problems because I need to demonstrate my presentation but I can't.
ah let me fix it. just.. aha is it okay now.
yes it's great.
(mhm) great…
(mm) good afternoon ladies and gentlemen let me introduce myself my name is  I'm a student. of the. tenth form of gymnasium number eleven named after Sergey Pavlovich Dyagelev and the theme of my research work is is Huntington’s theory of the clash of civilizations and the making of world order relevant to Russia's position in the modern world.. as you know there are many theories about political situation our world a huge number of them appeared after. the end of Cold War between United States of America and. Soviet Union or as you know it's Russia now. and one of them one of the most popular theories in the time it was Huntington’s theory. however fifty years have passed and much has changed in the modern world. so the purpose of my work is to de identify the re the revelance of Russia’s position in this theory in the modern political situation in the world. so to achieve my goal I need to set some task first of all I analyze the theory.
  can you next slide present… we see the first slide now.
oh…
yes…
is it works now.
yeah. yeah it is
so the second task was to analyze Orthodox civilization position in this theory and also I find some opinion of the national experts to the Russian position in the modern world and make a conclusion. so let me start with the biography of Phillips Samuel Phillips Huntington. he was American politicial science and writer. and he wrote the thesis the clash of civilizations. and he later expanded into his book the clash of civilization syndrome making a world older order. so he studied in Garvard and after earning his doctorates he began teaching. there he specialized on American politics at the beginning of his career and also he was political commentator on national debates on US US foreign policy.. so let's talk about theory. the clash of civilization is a thesis that people culture and religious and identities will be the primary source of context in the post Cald War. so future.. war will be future wars will fought not between countries but between cultures. so it's not between two countries it's between some blocks of countries. and.. also he think that local conflicts..(er) will clash some crash some civilization. and I think that there is no doubt that Western civilization is not the main one but all existing civilizations form the world.. so this is the map that he consists. he identifies eight main (eh) civilizations. first of all it's the Western civilization also it is Latin American Orthodox Islamic African Sinic Hindu Budduist Japanese and so on. but also he has two special terms. It is lone countries and its cleft countries so let's talk about Russian positions in Ortho in his theory. (eh) In his opinion Russia is a center of Orthodox civilization but in addition he considers Russia to be a cleft country. because Russia can’t cannot decide between.. Western and Eastern values. in his opinion Russia's closest ally is India and then the west and the main enemies are China Japan and Islamic countries.. and in addition in his opinion Russia has been following the path of modernization through reforms and revolution all its history but. this has caused great contradictions in society I think we can say that the last revolution in Russian history was in the nineteenth year of the last. century. so let's speak about modern situation and modern position Russian positions Russia’s position so. now I think Russia. particularly doesn't follow Eastern or Western values but it's trying to combine and create its own values. so we can see it we can all see it now and moreover nowadays we all know that Russia and China main partnership relations unlike the west which considers Russia and China its main enemies so it is. one of the minuses of theory of Huntington’s theory in the modern world. so it goes without saying that Russia has change the past three years. it changed a lot for example industry has reached the seventh place in the world.. also our students and pupils winning international Olympiads and Russian athletes set new records and some countries in the world think that Russia is important in politici political situation in the world.. they visit Russia and have some. positive partnership with our country so taking into account everything mentioned above we can make a conclusion. that in a contemporary situation Russia occupies more. advantages position in the world than thirty years ago therefore Huntington’s theory was relevant thirty years ago but now it actually works in some positions like. it works in the cases of future where will. be shifting because culture not because countries and.. that.. there is some process of shifting the center of the world from west to the other countries.. that's all that I want to tell you about my. my work…
okay thank you   I guess you can stop sharing your screen now. and I invite everybody to come up with the follow up questions.. then probably I can start if you don't mind well  well actually while I was listening. to your talk. the first question was how come that you being just a high school student. a school girl got interested in this topic.
we talk about this topic in our history lessons last year when we.. talk about some Russian some wars some Russian wars with Turkey. it was about also also was about First World War and we think what we think why there were a lot of wars between Russia and other countries and we talk about this theory because it help us to understand why Russia have a lot of wars with countries that our allies sometimes but they are our animal our enemies in other time.
I see okay thank you and my next question my second question. you mentioned that well.. this researcher Samuel Huntington his idea was that Russia cannot decide between Western and Eastern values so do you agree so if you do what is the evidence for that give some evidence if you don’t agree again would you please explain.
it’s really hard question because our history our country in our history always can’t understand what we need to do. what where we need to go because we have a big the big territory in our country we have Asian part we have Euro part. Euro part want to go on the European way but West way but other Asian country want to go in the Eastern way but I think now we. have our own values our own way because. we need to talk about modern situation in the world when West countries don’t understand Russia they sometimes hate Russia and Russian political Russians politics because they don’t want to have a strong Russia strong country but and but and not all people in the Asian country in the Eastern countries understand Russia and I think the best way to go to have some. to go in our history. to develop our country we need to have our own values and because not other civilizations can understand us. because our own way.
I see okay thank you thank you well more questions are welcome…
(mm) I can go hi  .
yeah
you did a really great job I loved your presentation my question for you is Huntington’s theory has been critiqued a lot it was very popular before and now has a lot of criticism what are some flaws that you see in his theory of the clash of civilization…
(eh) I need some time to think because it has a lots of information this theory I need to read a lot of information try to analyze it because. I. only starting political situation understand political situation in the world because. I don’t I don’t interested in this before.. and.. I read a lot of.. a lot of opinion about this theory and. now. a lot of people hate this theory. because it (er) (eh) doesn’t work in some aspects. like for example I can tell you about Russia’s position but also about Western positions and I think it has own pluses and minuses but I need to work more. so ask for your question.
okay thank you  thanks for your awesome talk awesome presentation.
