hello my name is . I want to representing my work representation of gender stereotypes (uh) in Russia and abroad . (um) I have made a a purpose and task that should . (um) be done and hypotheses . culture and political differences cause differences in perceptions of gender stereotypes in Russia and abroad . look at the screen and answer to yourself which part of the room is for boy and which is for girl . okay . and then which is the mean and why . and you know you can see on the screen what gender means but oxford living dictionary well I’m saying a few words about gender . (uh) in modern world there is a representation that all mean and woman have a definite set of behavioral models that intrinsic them over a majority follow this point of view and exactly knows which kind of behavior speaks and writes with these or that sex . they are four basics basic kinds of gender stereotypes . first of all it's personally traits . for example woman are escaped is kept to be accommodating and emotional while me men are skipped to be aggressive and sell co a self confident . domestic behaviors for example some people escape that woman will take care of children cook and clean the home while men (um) take care of finances walk in the car and make some home repairs . occupations . some people are quick to assume that teachers and nurses are woman and doctors pilots are men . and also it's a physical appearance . for example a woman escaped to be thin and graceful while men are escaped to be (um) tall and muscular . what in science make differences about (um) between sex and German . here you can see some . (um) so that sense is state of our bodies while the gender is state of our minds . it's believed that for the first time (uh) the term gender was appeared (um) in we what's introducing the science by American psychoanalyst Robert Stoller when his work sets in gender it was published it was about a development of masculinity and formality . in the same place (uh) the problem of gender inequality and gender stereotypes (uh) is  . simply pot gently gender stereotypes are generalization about the roles of each gender . also the main problem the main reason for the fragmentation was the problem in the professional sphere .. (uh) those are those it was  that the problem of gender inequality was first voiced and based on the social problems of those days . here you can see some examples (um) (uh) that published in social medias as Twitter. Instagram. Tumblr . (uh) its generally accept ah and also what is truly hate (eh) have catched my attention the topics like that . and here you can see some examples . it's generally accept that (uh . gender studies begins to develop in Russia in the late eighties and early nineties when the first feminist group . (uh) and independent woman's organization begin to appear . and the first publication and translations of articles of gen misuse appear in journals . def (uh) in defying gender stereotypes in Russia much attention is paid to (uh) the future generation and its upbringing (uh) so their idiomatically opposed points of view . what about gender education is and what goals and objective it’s pursuits . (uh) on Russian forums there is such a joke that sex is what a person has between his legs and the gender between his ears (uh) the gender of the person is form even in the womb . and gender identity is established in the process of education and socialization . here you can see some examples ... in a notion of gender stereotypes four criterias were put forward … and nowadays much attention pays to the social media . (um) here you can see (um) .. social (um) people like Sam Smith wearing heels and Billy Porter wearing a dress in the Oscars ceremony this year . and also we have (uh) done a large step when in the mass market (uh) begin to appear (uh) unisex collections .  was confirmed and thank you for attention
uh  do you (uh) can you explain (uh) what does it mean by the word abroad . what regions what countries . what does it mean that this
I think was Europe and America
uh-huh well
it based on the websites
thank you
um do you think these gender stereotypes and more in your experience are more (um) solid in Russia than they are abroad . cause I know coming here I was quite shocked by how much stronger the differences were . and we were quite me and my friends quite scared on the street cause all the guys that really scary and we all scared of going out on our own at night because this was in England . we wouldn't we wouldn't care prolly ah it's fine . but here we kind of . we we get the impression that a lot of the stuff we're doing as girls we're not supposed to do here . maybe like drinking and things like that . do you think it is more there's more of a division here in Russia than there is in the west or in America or anything or what do you think
yes . I think yes it's because of our history as a man should be more (uh) stronger than woman and Russia is such a stereotypically country
that's really interesting
any other questions from the audience
