 today and she going talk about the negative impact social networks teenagers
...

 good morning name and want tell about negative impact social networks teenagers. our days social networks play huge role our live everyday (eh) communicate (eh) using social networks (eh) arrange meetings and search for information and always often replaces (eh) real communication with virtual communication it simply impossible imagine the generation without social networks our time Instagram Telegram (eh) completely replaced (eh) live communication social networks have huge impact teenagers (eh) mostly negative (eh) this because some teenagers are explosive dependence social networks they are completely immersed social networks and forget about self-development social network displace walks sports and real communication from their lives wondered that negative impact social networks have teenagers and found out (eh) it possible for modern teenagers (eh) live without social networks ... despite the asides for communication the Internet causes evaporable damage real life they take lot available time that could spent study physical development (er) addition the enormous (eh) time costs they prevent adequate thinking influencing and distorting the sense perception the world the result the influencing the teenager occurs lot psychological problems becoming more complex and enormous (er) the result the influencing social networks can different problem (erm) for the negative impact teenagers (er) who arrange problems (er) are fallen ... for this work conducted study the purpose the study was identify (erm) the negative impact social networks teenagers (eh) (eh) fifty people age from twelve sixteen participated the survey (er) offered pass the questionnaire honestly possible and answer the questions ... (er) can say that social networks continuous harm with the right discipline approach this miracle internet technology you can get some benefit and make your life easier ... (eh) the study confirmed and showed that the internet and the long staying social networks negatively affect the physical and moral condition (eh) teenager and virtual communication becomes the predominant the live almost every teenager thank you for your attention 
 thank you for the presentation any questions 
 yes have
 yes
 thank you and question (eh) .. you use social networks and what your personal way limiting time spending it 
 (eh) (erm) using social networks (eh) and (erm) ...
 how much time you spend it daily 
 (erm) 
 one hour two hours 
 (eh) (erm) ... one hours (erm) (erm) yes 
 one hour per day 
 not too much okay you have very strong will unlike the most teenagers great any other questions ... .. alright thank you very much for the presentation 
 yes 
