 and (eh) . so . I guess we are ready to proceed to our final talk . to our final presentation to be given by .  .  . is  here.  I'm sorry if I mispronounced your surname . is it  . yeah . so .  is going to talk about . well . present and past Russian etiquettes .  welcome 
 (mm) .. just a second ... so . good evening everyone . my name is  . I'm from gymnasium two . Perm . and now I want to . (mm) present you our research present and past of Russian etiquette . so modern Russian etiquette is very different from etiquette in previous centuries . however (eh) some of the rules that need to be observed now . are preserved from the past . but now they often seem unreasonable and strange . to understand where they came from you need to know the origin . but this topic isn't very popular . so . we think that it will be actual to dive into the history of etiquette . and also look how popular are the old rules of etiquette now . so . the aim . of our research is studying the history of origin of extent rules of Russian etiquette . and identifications of most popular of them among teenagers . the tasks of our research you can see on the slide ... (eh) . the message of my research are opinion poll analysis . search of information . and review of literature on this subject . the object of our research is Russian etiquette . and the subjects are the history of Russian etiquette and its manifestations in the modern etiquette . and the . and my hypothesis is that even though some old rules of etiquette are still relevant among young people . there are also rules that have lost relevance among teenagers due to changes in society .. so . first . we search information and found several extent rules of etiquette from which we . (mm) chose five . chose five rules of etiquette with the more interesting origin . first of them . do not put your elbows on the table at lunch . the brief origin of this rule . is that in old days . tables were long length standing on several logs and if everyone sitting leans on it . table risks turn over . another reason was saving space . and also there is a version (eh) . according to which . the table was a sacred object . on which it was forbidden to lean of course . (eh) the second . remove their headwear indoors . heads were removed so as not to bring dirt and dust from the street . also . removing the headwear may demonstrate the good intentions . and (eh) in addition . there is a version (mm) .. according to which to the at the entrance to the house . everyone turned towards the icons in the red corner and took off their heads . as a sign of respect . forth . (eh) . let a girl through the door first . according to the first version . the woman in ancient time . went first to take on the danger that might be waiting outside the cave and save male breadwinner . and . according to the second later version . the essence of the rule was to guard the essence (eh) the entrance while the lady was entering . and I think . it is more logical . and the last to not point the finger at someone . this gesture symbolized short old blade lying in the hand . and . it could be regarded as an invitation to a duel . and also . people believed that this . this . this gesture wizards could curse someone .. (eh) . then . we . have collected some information about which of the these selected rules are most popular among teenagers . analyze this data and come across some interesting findings . according to the data . we can see that . the vast majority of their survived (eh) are often follow the rule . cover your mouth with your hand when yawning . remove the heads indoors is also rather popular . rules . rule among teenagers . whereas let the girl through the door first . is observed by the least number of respondents .. surprisingly on the eleven point six percent do not put their elbows on the table during meals . only slightly lower number of respondents . do not point the finger at someone making up nine point three percent . (eh) we can see . that the rules of etiquette are not equally popular among teenagers . low compliance of the rule let the girl though the door first and the rule about elbows . I think . can be explained . it is no great need for them now . but the problem is that some parents reproach teenagers for non-compliance these rules . I think that (eh) the best solution for this problem is to discuss the positions . maybe parents will understand that the etiquette  is not . is no giving so much attention in everyday environment .. (eh) among teenagers . especially if these rules are don't have sufficient justification now . but teenagers should to assess the situation too of course . in conclusion . we firmly believe . that . everything is changing . is change . is changing . and (eh) the etiquette too . so the statistics of our opinion poll is quite logical . so . etiquette is important part of our life . which has an interesting history . but . by which it is possible to take changes in people's lives . (eh) to understand where some strange and slightly illogical rules came from . my work can be used for general reviewing base . the origin of Russian etiquette and also .. for . further research . researches . I must say that my hypothesis is confirmed . the way of life and thinking is changing . and some of the traditional rules are beginning to be ignored by new generations . (eh) and this process is natural .. but it can be reason for generational conflict . that's all that I want to say ... 
 thank you . thanks  . well . your follow-up questions ..  can I start then . okay . so (eh) . can you predict how these . (eh) rules will change in the future  .. (eh) 
 will them will of will some of them disappear altogether . like nobody will let the girl first  
 I think that . the etiquette is necessary for everyone's comfort . and (eh) that the most rules of etiquette that we (mm) have now .. will remain . but some of them . I think . may disappear . but I . don't know (mm) . which ones exactly 
 thank you . thanks . well . dear participants . yeah  
 (eh) you mentioned that many of the younger population are no longer following these traditional forms of etiquette . do you think that this younger generation is creating new forms of etiquette . or only abandoning the old . etiquette 
 (mm) it`s interesting question . I think that these new forms of social life . new rules of etiquette may .. appear .. but . I think that (eh) the basis of future etiquette . will be traditional  
 thank you  . so . so dear participants . dear colleagues . dear speakers . thank you very much . (eh) for coming here today . well . it's been wonderful . (eh) well . eighty minutes . of the journey from really complicated subjects . like (eh) the clash of civilization to less serious ones . let me say 
