good afternoon dear colleagues my name is.   . I’m a student of the eleventh  class in lyceum number two . and today I’d like to present you my research work, dedicated to peculiarities of teaching English for children with attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder .. my first teaching experience didn't meet the success . my first student was a seven-year-old girl, Juliana who has never studied English before . having worked out the educational program elaborately . I was pretty sure that I’ll foster her interest and love in English and motivate her to study it (em) imagine my surprise when Juliana not only refused to start our lessons but she was also hiding under the table running back and forth and on the whole she was . misbehaving (em) being astonished I consulted with my English teachers I appealed to the (em) literature from city libraries and . some internet sources, but none of the advices were helpful or useful . having disappointed in my teaching skills I give up on lessons . And this very summer I decided to gain experience once again in a language (em). summer camp . (em) and there once again I stumbled upon an unusual (em) hyperactive child Misha I was lucky to have him in my group . teacher couldn’t find an appropriate approach to him for a long time . as he tended to violate the discipline and  various rules . this then I got an idea that those kids do need a special approach as they are not just (em) disobedient children who misbehave because of their will .. quite often such pupils are perceived as (em) rude capricious and they are (em) pedagogically neglected . often an uncomfortable child is sought to be transferred to another class and then to another schoo. l motivating this by the fact that he or she’s not able to learn the material at the lyceum or . gymnasium level . I became passion about teaching unusual children and started seeking some information dedicated to it . but to my surprise I came across the fact that very few works were written concerning this topic . ..(em) sorry (em) I've checked four city libraries and I have found only two works regarding ADHD (em) and approximately five or six internet sources .. ordinary methods of learning foreign languages are typically based on assimilation of .considerable quantity of information memorizing many words and expressions (em) doing homework with its radially increasing level of complexity which doesn’t really suit children with ADHD … Here you can see the sources that I’ve found. only one three four five sources concerning this topic .. and because of him most (uh) parents (uh) interest in their child's knowledge of foreign language (uh) most frequently English and moreover the absence of (um) any works concerning teaching foreign languages to children with ADHD I've decided to dedicate my research work (uh.) to the creation of the specialized methods of teaching English to such children . My hypothesis is. having elaborated (uh) the methods of teaching English to children with ADHD. it is possible to facilitate the assimilation and perception the information and the residence in the learning environment . (em) unfortunately I'm lacking in special education and the knowledge in this field (uh) but my aim distinguishing all the peculiarities of the educational process for children with ADHD and (uh) creation of (um) not methodology but some recommendations ... Over the past few years . the number of children with ADHD has been rapidly increasing (uh) which is a really serious issue that prevents children from social adaptation . in accordance with the statistics .. (em) are there approximately 80% of children suffering from ADHD in Russia .. (em) attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is a developmental disorder which not only impairs (em) the educational process, but also leads to the disturbance to the emotionally violation sphere and (em) . interpersonal relationships with family and peers it also induces the  adjustments and th= problems of so= socialization . (em) An adult being too controlled his action and emotions himself can adapt to such a peculiarity much easier but as can be said concerning the child attending kindergarten or school . who can face a low level of readiness for the education assimilation educational material and alienation from the peers .without specially organized psychological and pedagogical help …sorry…. at the same time accounting the features of ADHD can become the basis for the effective education and creation new methods for such children . for this qualified specialists being familiar in this field are required. however according to the monitoring of the parents’ . messages regarding problems with ADHD (em) on Russian websites we can come to the conclusion that nowadays it is almost impossible to... (em) (em) see to find a teacher who can deal with such children and help them .. (em) ... on the slide you may see the main (em) symptoms which were presented by American psychologists (em) Baker and Albert .. for sure only a doctor can make a diagnosis whether of whether a child is hyperactive or not. but there is a number of (em) symptoms that teachers and (uh.) parents should pay attention to . (em) in order to determine (uh) how much depends know about this syndrome and whether they can diagnose it . I have  conducted a survey at the lyceum number ten where twenty one participants took part … according to the survey. I (em) came to the conclusion that the problems connected with the children's (uh) concentration assimilation the information and then the regime either exist permanently or. arise periodically . at the same time less than half of (em) parents know about ADHD (em) well or tolerably .. (em) what witnesses that the issue hasn't been brought to the parents' attention and hasn't been investigated in special literature .. (Uh) one more time I was convinced that the solution of this issue is a very significant (em). aspect in the educational sphere It motivated me to elaborate my own (em) methodical recommendations bas= based on specialized literature I’ve (em) analyzed and my own experience .. you may seeochure … (em) .. (em) my last experience of working as a teacher was noticeably more successful (uh) because I used my own methods . my students were a first-grader Matvey and third grader Stepan . (em) boys had been attending (uh) lessons in the language center for two years . they there they were usually scolded for bad behavior and at the same time, voiced their complaint on (em) tiring and boring lessons . before I started lessons with them (em). they (em) had only known a half of the alphabet (em) not to mention reading . they couldn't read at all . (em) I decided to conduct lessons two times a week for 45 minutes with two breaks . (em) overall time of studying (uh) six months . (em) after our lessons we’ve learned many words on the topics clothes colors professions the city brute learned how to answer alternative special and choice questions and how to read . how to read words and small phrases short phrases . unconditionally there were some problems during the educational process for example boys didn’t want to do the homework . (em) we didn’t want to continue workingafter break but still I think we achieved all the goals we set and thus having faded the special methods of teaching English to children (em) and applied it in practice (em) we confirmed our hypothesis . thank you for your attention. now .. I ready to answer your questions 
Thank you for your interestng report . any questions
Maybe it’s not exactly the topic, but (em) do you know what is the reasons of this disorder and  to prevent it before it 
(em) thank you for your question . (em) as far as I know the first reason is birth trauma and unfortunately we can’t prevent it . the second reason is quite preventable it is (em).. kind of family problem (em) some issues concerning upbringing and their environments at school for example main reasons
Do you have any explanation to (em) why Russia and the USA . They have the highest perc= percent of these children right with ADHD For example because there was a  countries and for example in the USA therapy is going on so fast and  is developing so fast but whereas in Russia it’s not as fast so why mention this  as we have such a 
thank you for your question . (em) let's see . it’s a challenging question to be honest . (em) I can suppose it's (um) it is connected somehow with not with the medicine, but with schools that schools (uh) pay attention rather on (em) normal kids . they think of how to (em) promote them how to help them  but not . they don’t think of such children
but you know . actually  say this on the contrary there are some schools that actually  treat every kid like they’re normal and they you know  in the same classroom they participate in the same subject 
I'm sorry I have no answer for this question
Any other questions
I'm sorry I have forgotten to mention (uh) what I've done with my brochure . I've divided it into five parts . the first one is how to start the lesson . (em) the second one is the system of (em) rewards and, (em) yes rewards . the third one is how to revise the material . the fourth is the educational process itself . and the last one is (em)..  different ways how to organize a break ... there must be at least two breaks for one lesson
Thank you very much
