 not appropriate use this exa exact word for kids who are watching this (er) and for situation the cartoon more suitable will synonym . frankly speaking the most complicated thing during the translation to comply all difficulties because is hard keep (er) every trait mind after even after double check there were some mistakes and inaccuracies work it obligatory check everything several times ... conclusion would like note that far film and animation industry dynamic cannot exclude that this sphere open changes.. is worth saying that languages are shifting too and must remember this it might happen that some the difficulties will disappear some will the same and some will come. difficulties animated cartoon translation an area that can endlessly changing ... and also theoretical ..(uhu).. practical part was animated cartoon translation ... (er) and have time can show (er) minute episode you 
 I'm sorry but you are very significantly over the time limit 
 okay 
 (er) maybe we'll save time for questions and discussions thank you very much (er) that the end your speech 
 yes 
 .. (em) colleagues participants you are very much welcome with your questions ... please 
 just wanted check with the raise hand function hello I'm I'm one the panelists from Ohio University (em) guess question was love watching was challenging.. (em) were there extra aspects added with movie that also has French language aspects well and localizing and translating 
 ... it correct that you asked about French (er) words the subtitles yes 
 yes 
 well (er).. would like say that (er) keen cooking know some the words the French words and names for example dishes products but.. (er) during the translation also used French dictionary because they were some words that didn't know 
 ask couple questions hope you can answer them shortly see how goes you introduced two terms the beginning your speech (er) preserving adequacy and accessibility was the final task. how you understand and treat accessibility here the context your translation 
 well... (er) would say that is also goes the style the text and with the account address factor because (er) the translation needs be must (er) accessible (er) for kids (er) like the words should .. (er) the same level their knowledge would say 
 from that are you sure that they will understand like little kids 
 well happens sometimes that (er) there something for ..(er) adults too and think everyone can agree that there are some places and episodes every cartoon that (er) children can ask their parents 
 thank you yeah see I want ask particular about one your practical examples connected with syntax (er).. what seemed me that you actually did not have any difficulties about translating syntax but you went literally word word reproducing the grammatical forms (er) verbs for example without going something like that so what was actually the difficulty here 
 (er) 
 translation seems like completely mirror the syntax 
 I think (er) here the difficulty that (er) in Russian have the we don't have the exact rules how put words like the order words but ..(er) English have they were example how (er).. sentences look different like .. the order words 
 okay (mhm) (er) we have one more question think that one 
 yeah. well thank you for the talk just one short question like the previous speaker you call the difficulties the difficulties and question .. when hear the word difficulty understand that you mean that it's always possible translate something it might difficult but you can it and your experience translator have you faced maybe cases words sentences phrases when you (er) notice that it's not difficult it's simply impossible translate something adequately accessibly just accurately any degree 
 (er) think because was cartoon and the words easier than (er) in film for example would say that yes had (er) consult some open sources but (er) translated everything that wanted do  
 thank you 
 that's great hear (er) thank you very much (er).. 
  
 