 … good afternoon my name is … (er) I’m a student of the eleventh o  of lyceum number two and (er) I would like to take some brochures… so I would like to present you my research work titled the influence of the advertising language on information on the teenagers’ vocabulary in the United Kingdom… the relevance of the topic chosen by us is confirmed by the fact that the vocabulary which experts choose to create the advertising text is forcing me for confirm the point of view of the impact on teenagers . so the aim of our work is (er) the creation of the table of words which were borrowed from the advertising and simplify their understanding .. (em) in the wider world there are several things that affect the teenager speech . firstly it is the internet where people do not follow spelling and punctuation . secondly borrowing foreign words can become a part of slang . but beyond that information (erm) but beyond that the speech of adolescents is heavily influenced by advertising . advertisements become a global part of their life . and now they can’t imagine their living without it .. the term advertising appeared in the second half of the eighteenth century . but earlier information about the goods was used in communication media . for example messages on Egyptian papyrus information card of stones or in Asian states information was spread by the herald .. television is the most multi-purpose of all advertising means . (er) it gives an opportunity to influence the consciousness and some consciousness of potential buyers . a business card of any manufacturer is a slogan . slogans such as because I’m worth it just do it and hello moto are known all over the world . and are easily asso= associated with the brands L’Oréal Nike and Motorola respectively ... it is important what words and phrases are used in the advertising texts . common lexical means of a speech influence are in the polysemy of words, homonymy and idioms or idiomatic expressions . the impact is often carried out on an emotional level . so the advertisers turn to lexical means of speech influence or traits .. it is worth saying (erm) that new words can appear in the language in various ways . so is it difficult to find out an appropriate word for an advertising text . it’s very simple . advertisers come up with a new one . such words are called neologisms . there are lexical and semantic neologisms . lexical neologisms are created like all other words in the usual ways (erm) but fro= from but from new foundations either by shortening the old words, or by merging several . such as crowdsourcing . so I can give an example of online  and semantic neologisms are previously known words (erm) that have received a new meaning . such as coffee means the person upon whom one coughs .. (em) an integral part of any advertising media is the text . that reveals the idea of the advertising . however words in the text can be understood by different people in different ways . jargon is a speech of a social or a professional group (em) which differs from the general speaking language by a special composition of words and phrases . teenagers actively use these words in their speech and in communication on the internet . for example first things first ace . it’s a British slang term which means something that just brilliant or excellent . the next one geek . (erm) it’s a person who is not generally athletic but enjoys video games . the next one friends forever with q instead of o has a similar meaning with the friends forever with o but in a more emotional sense . And the last but not the least getting double o (er) means indulge in pleasure or relaxation . from the advertising corporate  . in order to confirm or on the contrary refute our hypothesis we decided to conduct a survey . the respondents were asked the following questions do you wha= do you often watch advertising (erm) do you notice that you use (erm) advertising words in your life and complete the following slogans . and we offe= offered five ones . (erm) to the first question  sixty three percent of people answered positively . however to the second one sixty one percent of respondents could not (erm) answer the whether they know that they use neologisms or not . and significantly the majority of people were able to complete the following slogans . the difficulty arose only with old and little-known ones such as it does exactly what is says on the tin . its an advertising of food saying so I don’t think that all teenagers use it in their ordinary life but one of the most famous slogan have a break have a Kit Kat . so I consider that almost all Russian people know this slogan of KitKat of course . as a result we came to the conclusion that adolescents use (erm) advertising words in their speech without noticing it . moreover (em) during the correspondence with the British we learned a lot of new advertising words . that means that teenagers (em) of this country memorize obsessive slogans unconsciously . in the course of our research it was brute, that advertisers (erm) use the vocabulary of limited in order to be understood by the target audience . such a primitive meaningless language litters the speech of modern teenagers . almost every st= student knows by heart primitive advertising text that undoubtedly influence to the developing vocabulary of modern teenagers . so that’s all for now . thank you for your attention . I’m ready to answer your questions . 
 thank you very much . any questions? so would you like to ask  something . 
  Yes . Do you think Russian teenagers are affected in the same way by advertising in Russia 
 thank you for your question . yes of course . I think that Russian teenagers are also (er) depend on advertising and the language of the advertising . (erm) honestly I did a similar work about the Russian advertising . and it was proved that Russian teenagers use (er) much more advertising words in their speech than British teenagers . 
 thank you . any other questions? so may I ask you a question? So (erm) according to your research findings, (eh) it appears that (er) the advertising influences the language of teenagers . Is that right? 
 Yes 
 Ok . And (er) do you think this is done (erm) purposefully by advertisers so do they do that specially to promote their . products or it’s just the matter of I don’t know chance just (er) all of a sudden some commercial turns out to be more popular than others and those catchy slogans (er) become popular among the audience of teenagers 
 Actually I don’t think that it’s a main purpose of advertisers, (er) but it’s not bad that slogans (erm) are remembering and teenagers actively use this words because (em) .. in this way advertise=advertising may be (em) in the heads of people (eh) they may think about it every day so It can be useful for advertisers to use these slogans that can be (erm) well known for example . 
 ok thank you do you have any other questions? ok thank you for the presentation

