 and now . (eh) the floor to our next speaker . also higher school . higher school student . (eh) that is  . who is going to compare how Easter is celebrated in different countries .  
 yes . thank you  
 yes . okay  
 can you see my presentation  
 yes . yes .  
 okay ... so . good evening . my name is  . I am (eh) studying in Berezniki in lyceum number one . (eh) and I would like to present my research . formation of intercultural communication on the example of comparing celebrating Easter traditions . (eh) . language is the main tool for learning exploration of the world . it is also the main way of communication between people . in addition to the language . it is important to know the culture of the people . their tradition, values . we consider that our research will help to address some difficulties . in the perception and acceptance of the cultural aspects of the Easter celebration in the context of the dialogue of cultures . our purpose is to study the cultural aspects of the Easter celebration in the UK . and compare them with the cultural aspects in Russia . and to address the difficulties of their perception in order to form sustainable intercultural communication .. and to achieve this purpose . we need to solve following tasks . to reveal the essence of the concept of intercultural communication . and why it is so important for English  . to study the features of their Easter celebration in the Orthodox church and Catholicism . compare the cultural aspects of the Easter celebration in Russia and Great Britain and submit the study as an article . so what is the intercultural communication . today there there is natural situation when any nation is open to the reference of someone else's cultural experience . and at the same time is ready to share its own culture . and this is intercultural communication . (eh) there is a golden opportunity for learning (eh) foreign cultures . holidays and tradition . for our research . which chose (eh) Easter celebration . in a person ha if a person has knowledge about the differences of re of religious traditions and the features of celebrating a holiday in an non-native culture . then intercultural communication is formed . I was wondering how my classmates feel about Easter . so I have conducted a survey . and this is the results . (eh) forty-four per cent of my classmates said they don't have any religion . but eighty-three per cent of them said that they do celebrate Easter . half of my classmates . one second ... half of my classmates said there is no difference between Catholic and Orthodox Easter . and half of them said they . that they don't know about history of Easter ... 
 something is wrong 
 my wifi doesn't working . isn't 
 you continue . you can continue talking 
 (eh) at first . (eh) Easter was celebrated in honor of the liberation of Jewish people from Egyptian slavery but now it's about the life that that and the resurrection of . God of Son of God Jesus . when he was 33 years old . he gathered twelve of his closest Apostles at the Last Supper and told them that one of them would betray him soon . and it was true . he was betrayed by Judas . Jesus Christ was crucified . was crucified on mount Golgotha but he resurrected . and this is that is what is celebrated . (eh) on Christian Easter . is my presentation is visible now  
 yes . yes we see the new slide  
 okay . (eh) . so . the Orthodox Easter is celebrated between April fourth and May eighth . whereas Catholic Easter is celebrated between March twenty-two and April twenty-fifth . in both churches . there is a tradition of eating . (eh) colored eggs . Easter cake and cottage cheese . but in UK . especially in England . (eh) families gather together and . (eh) prepare (eh) Sunday lunch . they bake lamb with many vegetables .  cake and serve cross buns with tea . (eh) one of the main differences between Catholic and Orthodox celebration is the Catholic Easter Bunny (eh) . and Orthodox Christian . (eh) have a custom of meeting each other with the words . Christ is risen . and the answer truly risen . (eh) on this page . we can see pictures . that show differences between Orthodox and the Catholic Easter . at the top of the page we can see Catholic (eh) . traditions , and . at the bottom of the page . there are Orthodox traditions .. (eh) . we studied the cultural aspects of . (eh) the Easter celebration in the UK . and compare them with the cultural aspects in Russia . and address the difficulties of their perception in order to form sustainable intercultural communication . this article can be used in magazines . such as National Geographic . British Council magazine . or Vokrugsveta . or it can be post published on tourism websites . lesson in school . or (eh) post on the site for learning English . that's all what I want to tell you . thank you for your attention . I would be glad to answer your questions  
 thank you thank you  . well . have you got any questions  
 yes 
 mh okay  
  which Easter celebration do you find more interesting 
 Catholic Easter . traditions . is more bright . and joyful . so I prefer Easter celebration . probably . Catholic Easter celebration 
 thank you 
 so  
  . sorry . a question for you . do you think that the difference that you found between Orthodox and Catholic celebrations of Easter . is also something that would appear . in other holidays that are different between cultures . (eh) or do you think it's just Easter, perhaps  
 of course . there is a lot of (eh) differences between holidays of Catholic and Orthodox holidays . yes . but I wanted to compare only Easter celebration  
 thank you  . you are most enthusiastic . about your topic . thank you very much 
