 and the next speaker (em) .   do we have  
 yes 
 ah yes  is here . well and the topic is non-verbal components in the structure of social advertising test . well  you are welcome . 
 thank you very much hello everyone thank you all for coming today my name is  and I’m a second year student of Perm National Research Polytechnic University and in this presentation I would like to tell you about non-verbal components of social advertising text if you have any questions please leave them until the end when I will be happy to answer them . (em) public service announcement or PSA is one of the most effective and demanded means of mass communications the goals of social advertising are the following articulation of acute social problems general changing of social moral values and motivation of people to change the world for the better the objects of public service announcement can be dedicated to healthy lifestyle gender equality personal safety environment protection and so on but now I’m going to speak about PSA fighting against domestic abuse . prevention of domestic violence is done for commercial . outdoor advertising posters and leaflets one of the most popular that advertisers use to grab people’s attention is shock images . in order to reveal regularities of applying non-verbal components of the social advertising texts (em) we have conducted a comparative analysis against the criteria that you can see on the slide . let’s expand on that and see the results . in most cases in forty five percent (em) the characters’ images are women who have suffered from domestic abuse fifteen percent of total number of social advertisements depict a man injuring a woman . this model of advertising text represents the most frequent model of domestic violence when . (em) a woman became a victim as for explicit traces of violence in characters’ appearance the analysis revealed that there are signs of violence in the images in fifteen percent . traces of violence include bruises . abraisions wounds etcetera . in seventy percent (em) of posters gestures as number of all component of social advertising text (em) is absent (em) and we can suppose that absence of any gestures (em) of potential or real victims . is a sign of their silence and unwillness to tell about the situation let’s look at the emotions of advertising characters the most popular emotions emotion that advertisers use is indifference  indifference is a characteristic of people who have suffered from moral or physical violence and are not ready to resist it . futhermore the emotions of anger disgust or fear are also used by advertisers . (em) as the study showed the majority of ad- adv- (heh) advertisements do not demonstrate any actions in seventy five percent of action of posters there is  action another last but not least (em) component of the social advertising non-written text is a color choice on the slide diagram you can see results of studying the visual color palette cold color tints are more popular than warm tints therefore we can suppose that they tell us about negative estimation of this acute social problem . moreover every color has special semantics for example black is a . black symbolizes despondence and depression or grey is a color of . hopelessness etcetera the analysis of font peculiarities shows that in most cases ninety five percent sans-serif typefaces are used for recepients' convenience (em) as for the types of fonts the most popular are strict square fonts (em) straight oblong fonts I’m so sorry that are used for forty percent as part of study it was revealed that social advertising fighting against domestic abuse (em) comprises complicated signs symbolic system among the signs advertisers emphasize  room physical injuries the sign of violence hijab for example as a sign of pity and restraint as for symbols there are  as a symbol as physical strength and superiority cooking outfit (em) symbols of female household chores hand as a symbol of power and domination or . sunglasses as a symbol of the desire to hide the truth . in conclusion I would to sum-up a regularities of non-verbal components of PSA . woman suffering from (em) domestic violence is commonly used as an advertising character as for non-verbal behavior patterns there is a lack of gestures actions and . emotions in most cases the next criteria allow us to speak about cold color tints as . most popular color palette and . sans-serif typefaces as most popular font . and finally advertisers use . (em) often use sophisticated sigh-symbolic system to communicate key message . articulation of the problem of domestic abuse is done though PSA . an important part of social advertising text are non-verbal components the obtained data give us the opportunity to tell about social attitude to domestic violence this problem exists and it will exist if the society will not think about their values and . think about it . (em) thank you for your attention now I’m glad to answer your questions  
 well thank you very much  well a really urgent topic I think (uhu) now you’ve got a question . well  you are welcome 
 a very good presentation and so (em) yeah you done a great job and it’s a very it was a very beautiful theme that you picked as an actual appearance (em) so one thing I’m kind of have two questions one of them is could you just clarify in that slide where you had a circle showing different emotions and their personages could you clarify what you meant by companies using indifference 
 (em) just a second 
 yeah 
 do you mean indifference . indifference is an emotion of people who has suffered from violence (em) it’s (em) . I think this emotion as a characteristic of people who wants to change the situation but they don’t know how they can change something .. advertisers make (em) … they try to demonstrate  demonstrate that indifference is not that way that people want to (em) . thet people should choose . if they want to (em) change the situation with domestic abuse in Russia and I think in other countries are not good is not good 
 (uhu)      
 ok and then (em) thank you yeah that’s I understand better now and my other question is what do you think could be done . to change these advertisements to create more action since you said only twenty-five percent viewer are estimated to take action after seeing that advertisements  
 sorry can you repeat your question I actually did not understand 
 yeah so how do you think we could change these advertisements so that more people take action 
 (uhu) 
 (em) I think I can suppose that maybe advertisers should use more . (em) more non-verbal components that will . present that domestic abuse is not good it should be changed other people for example maybe advertisers should use more (em) shock images as a cases of violence in appearance of characters and maybe (em) big slogans that will . it’s not non-verbal component it’s a verbal component it’s (em) actually . important 
 well shocking images yes can attract more attention of well the public 
 yes  
 I see .. thank you . thank you you’ve got one more question (uhu)  (uhu)  
 thank you for your presentation  . since you are more  than some of our participants  a little bit more critics . (em) and first of all I’d like to comment on your suggestion to use more violence images so if you had made a real social advertisements you should learn that this doesn’t work . using more violent images at least in for animals for treating animals doesn’t work doesn’t make people to be (em) more . to become kinder towards animals and I believe same thing might happen with humans so probably this is not the best way and it’s indeed an open question what would be the best component to create an optimal the most efficient advertsement . the second point I would like to know how the emotions were evaluated . so that’s my second question and (em) . one comment is that actually indifference is not an emotion if you take classicals  there is on what is emotions (em) you can find different kind of classifications according to Paul Ekman who is (em) british (em) . psychologist (em) specializing in emotions and he doesn’t have indifference there he has six basic emotions other (em) classifications (em) for example Robert Plutchik but I’ve never seen a classification have an indifference . so (em) as I would advise you to be more  on the terminology you use and I would like to know how these emotions were evaluated in this case and actually I maybe I have missed this where do all other figures in your diagrams come from how was they obtained 
 thank you for your questions (em) first of all as I understand (em) you would like to know my opinion about best decisions (em) of . 
 I would like to know how these emotions were evaluated so how do we know that this is happiness the different approaches to evaluate emotions of people automatic laboratory maze manual searching and looking rating on different scales I would like to know how these emotions were . evaluated in your study and were do all other figures come from for example  this number this percentage advertisements use this type of  so I would like to know what database was used in this study 
 (em) 
 about emotions how were emotions evaluated or measured yeah 
 yeah so . if you take several advertisements how do you know that this woman is displaying fear or indifference or happiness or I don’t know what      
 (em) I have a (em) . just a second I try to (em) 
 well any calculations maybe scales which scales did you use in your study . scales yeah 
 number of advertisements that we . researched (em) okay I understand (em) our analysis was based on twenty posters and . every poster every advertisement . there were some emotions of characters . and I agree that indifference is maybe not . emotion that … condition of victim of violence 
 I would recommend for the future research of ongoing research just try to specify in a more rigorous way what’s you’re doing (em) because to have a valid data to have valid results you would definitely need to increase the number of posters that you’re going to (em) to examine so for other posters that you’re going to do in your future studies please be as much of size  as possible with the structure that you apply that’s my general recommendation 
 thank you thank you very much 
 thank you very much well anything else who would like to clarify well thank you  
