 the first speaker today is  with her presentation . social networks a platform for political communication . (eh) let me see if you can share the screen . yes .you can 
 well . (eh) this is a presentation 
 yes . we can see the presentation 
 okay. that`s right . good afternoon . let’s me introduce myself . my name is  and I am a student of tenth form gymnasium number six . well . have you ever seen political debates in social networks or even taking parts of them . so if it happened it was political communication and today we are going to talk about it . so the goal of the project is to identify the features of political communication in social networks in Russia and the U S the United States during the period of Russian and U S presidential elections . in twenty eighteen and twenty twenty .. due it’s capabilities social media can become a universal platform . for the formation . of the next generation of powerful politicians .. so . political communication . is the process of transferring political information . due to which it circulates from one part of the political system to another . and between the social and political system .. moreover the rest in interest in fact that America is the world leader in the development of . social media . and the blogosphere in this country has a real impact on the political process .. well . as you can see on the screen . there is a special formula defines political communication as a principle what is an incentive this is the reaction … well . to investigate the topic of the project we analyzed four political blogs from (eh) two countries the United States of America and Russia . we chosen two blogs from Russia and two from the United States . the collective blog of Alexey Navalny and the individual blog of Nikolay Bondarenko from Russia and (eh) Michelle Malkins individual blog and collective blog of Markos Moulitsas from the United States .. well . in Russia . political bloggers . published most materials during the day . while in the United States the increases in publications is done to the morning .. in general . the leading political bloggers are characterized . (eh) with a picture and a video . in all countries the accent is done on classic photos and videos .. well . as we can see on the screen . Russians are fond of discussions a problem on the Internet while Americans . are more insult to dissimulate information .. we can see that in Russia the informative generally dominates while in the America the material is analytical .. also it`s an interesting fact that the American top blogs political blogs are simple to diaries .. we can also note that the prevalence of materials about national issues in both countries .. and also the analysists of aspect of political topics showed that the most of materials are devoted to elections of course .. however . a small sample size does not make it possible to make conclusions about all political blogs in this countries . but it allows us to draw intermediate consequences .. well . our second step was an international survey in on Russian and American people aged eighteen-thirty . we interviewed four hundred people .. well . to get replications we used two social networks . it’s Vkontakte and Instagram .. well . the survey has shown us that in Russia people cannot speak openly about politics in public because of no anonymity they would prefer to discuss political news only with friends . while American users said that they're not in a hurry to talk about politics with their friends or relatives . because they're afraid of disagreements with them . but they also repost (eh) a tweet and add their position to it .. also . in the American experience of expressing their opinion with public . has shown us that politics should become open and familiar to discussion among citizens .. well . we discovered the breaks through of the project that social media has become a multi a multipurpose platform . where everyone can realize themselves . every person . from every corner of the world . can set the direction of the news .. well . it sounds really impossible that the more unique material he presents the more open the more he opens himself to his audience . well . the faster information can be spread through the world .. we have always thought that success in social networks should remain in the small community of particular people as people who have more connections more financially and power . but now everyone is able not only to share information but also to lead people .. so . with the rapid development of political communication in social networks it's possible to expand the blogosphere in whole . using the example of the development of political communication in social networks . people can get practical advices on successful blogging in general .. well . the best time to publish a post is from six pm to ten pm . also . don't keep an account just for a tick . be interested in your business . don't be silent in response to comments . well . make clear that you can hear the audience . and don't ignore the negative . also . choose simple and understandable language and of course . express your opinion . if everyone is afraid . who will voice the problem .. well . in an era of openness and transparency dry information is . no longer inspired the society it changes the psychology of a person as a participant of this process hisself awareness and perception of the world of course . it's quite predictable that social media is used by young generation . who will in a few years participate in a real political processes because social media . is a platform where everyone can be realized .. well . thank you for your attention . I will be happy to answer your questions  
 (eh) thank you so much  . I would like to welcome questions from the audience first (eh) . and please  swearing on multimodal communication mode on Zoom . you can also typing your break short questions in the chat . probably longer questions are inconvenient to read there but if you have a short question you can type it there . and that can give us the possibility probably to resave the questions and answer them later (eh) at a later stage . (eh) any questions to  . I would have one . if you allow . (eh) one deals with your research design . how did you select (eh) the blogs for analysis . why did you choose this particular four 
 (eh) well . (eh) as research of (eh) one of the medias shows that these four blogs are the most popular blogs in these two countries so these two blogs in the United States and in Russia . so . that is why we decided to . choose the most popular blogs . where we can see a lot of readers and (eh) a great reaction from the readers 
 all right . so there would be would have been the biggest number of followers right 
 yes 
 and comments . okay . the number of comments . okay . (eh) other questions 
 I have a questions . (eh)  please (mm) tell us about the procedure of recruiting respondents from Russia and the U S A please 
 about differences yes 
 no . about (eh) recruiting 
 okay . how did you select (eh) your responders 
 well . (eh) they interviewed four hundred people (eh) well in Russia I interviewed my friends . (eh) the friends of my parents . and I asked (eh)  my friends (eh)  to select and to answer there . and from the United States (eh) there was an interesting story because I've got a friend who . moved to the United States (eh) to study in the university and (eh) she helped me a little bit . so (eh) . she gave me some contacts of people who would be eager to communicate with me about this topic . and (eh) they helped me to do this research and I ask them interviews 
 okay . thank you . I understand 

