 er) the first speaker (er) (er) school number seventeen from yeah and (er) (er) has very complex well topic acid neutralizing effectiveness modern antacids and the booklet entitled antacid drug application rules 

 yes 

 well (er) okay think you can start well start the demonstration yeah well you are welcome 

 (em) start yes 

 yeah (er) thank you 

 (er) hello name I student gymnasium seventeen and today want tell you our project the topic (er) acid neutralizing antacids and and booklet entitled antacid drugs application rules (em) ... one the most popular features (er) diseases the digestive tract heartburn unpleasant burn feeling the chest stomach and esophagus these cases there are usually used antacid drugs that reduce the acidity gastric juice the question how effective and safe those drugs work and what influence they could have human body order figure we decided conduct work this topic the aim the study was conduct comparative study the acid neutralizing effectiveness antacids hypothesis let's assume that acid neutralizing agents the form suspensions and gels are more effective than pills we have larger contact surface reaction substances 

 (er) sorry for interrupting are you changing the slides your presentation 

 yes. yes 

 well (er) it's (er) specific feature zoom (er) you you can well okay let be like this (mhm) okey ... well now think will bit different yeah now it's great well sorry for interrupting well can continue 

 (er) okey ... (er) the research objectives are presenting the slide (er) antacids are medicines intended for the treatment acid dependent diseases the gastrointestinal tract neutralizing hydrochloric acid which part gastric juice traditionally all antacids are divided into absorbable and non-absorbable (em) absorbed antacids include for example baking soda magnesium and calcium carbonate non absorbable antacids include aluminum magnesium antacids there were five antacids compared our work for medications maaloks gastal reni fosfoligel and baking soda the comparison was carried out based an assessment acid neutralizing (eh) efficiency investigated the acid neutralizing efficiency measuring the of . hydrocoric acid solution after adding antacids it the was measured using meta maaloks and fosfoligel were liquid dosage forms gastal and reni were the form tablets order study the acid neutralizing ability had measured solution hydrochloric acid with one which typical for the stomach with heartburn the drug maaloks contains magnesium hydroxide aluminum and its composition refers non-absorbable antacids when the components maaloks interact with hydrochloric acid reaction presenting the slide proceed the of hydrochloric acid solution after the addition maaloks was measured after five ten and fifteen minutes the values are presenting the slide and have been entered into general summary table for all other antacids the study was conducted similarly ... the drug fosfoligel contains aluminum phosphate each refers non-absorbable antacids then interaction with hydrochloric acid reaction presenting the slide ... (er) reni's preparation contains calcium and magnesium carbonate refers absorbable antacids when the reni components interact with hydrochloric acid the reaction presenting the slide proceed the gastal preparation contains aluminum hydroxide magnesium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide is combined antacid then (er) the ... reni components interact with hydrochloric acid the reaction presenting the slide occurs baking soda (er) sodium bicarbonate and unabsorbable antacid when soda interacts with hydrochloric acid gastric juice reactions presenting the slide takes place with the values the hydrochloric acid solution after the addition soda shown the slide also when soda interacts with hydrochloric acid active release carbon dioxide absorbed which leads blotting and stretching over stomach this regard soda not recommended as. antacid ... from the result obtained can concluded that the fastest active antacid baking soda however, has lot side effects the highest acid neutralizing capacity was gastal which consists three components once and combined antacid the lowest acid neutralizing ability was shown maaloks and fosfoligel despite the fact that they were presenting the liquid form (er) after receiving results the study and analyzing the scientific data have compiled information booklet now can watch you (er) . did for myself and classmates the booklet reflects the concept acid depended (er) diseases and describes rules for taking antacids ... result (er) research work the analysis literature sources about antacids carried out the evaluation methods for determining the acid neutralizing effectiveness antacids was carried out a study shame was developed there was neither conclusion about the effectiveness the study drugs information booklet about rules for the use antacids has been prepared for the public the evolution methods for determining the acid neutralizing effectiveness the antacids were carried out ... our work was dedicated the study the acid neutralizing ability antacids our hypothesis about the higher effectiveness the the suspensions and gels comparing the pills has not been confirmed have shown that the acid neutralizing ability justified the composition the antacid agent absorbable antacids have greater acid neutralizing ability than non-absorbable ones and have faster onset effect however have found that absorbable antacids have larger number side effects has also been shown that it irrational use baking soda an antacid since leads stretching over stomach all the tasks set us the beginning the work have been full completed the list references presenting the slide thank you for your attention 

 well thank you very much now well Melanie you're welcome (mhm) 

 (em) okey so. thought that was very excellent presentation you did great job (em) thought that was good experiment too remember doing that one when was high school (em) your was wondering exactly (em) do you kind have you have any ideas if you could anything you wanted this experiment how would you (em) ... first have science question and then advertising question this my science question if you could anything you wanted you have any ideas .. how you would (em) make the experiment more thorough allow you get more conclusive results 

 (mhm) well fact about further study yeah (mhm) 

 (em) okay thank you for the question (em) ... ... this experiment which did school was (er) easy (er) and is the first and think is (em) ... think (em) ... will ... with teacher maybe two and three experiments (em) this (em) work but don't know (em) which (em) ... something 

 (mhm) you are not sure about the plans for the future yeah 

 yes

 about the further (hmh) okey 

 let someone else 

 (mhm) ... well have one more question (uhu) (uhu) 

 thank you for your nice presentation was very clear design have just little qualification question and a general question the first one (er) it was clear for that's for medicine.. (er) for the drugs you tested one tablet but how much baking soda you were using because when saw the whole package could believe that was about testing either tablespoon the whole package was not quite clear and the second question about side effects you've mentioned this stretching the stomach but what are the side effects other drugs and how they could evaluated and compared each other 

 (em) (em) thank you for your question I use said (er) four (er) medicines and baking soda (er) the (er) baking soda find home and (er) use one spoon (er) for the experiment and the second question can you repeat please 

 (er) it's about side effects other any side effects other drugs can you compare them terms side effects 

 (em) know only one side effects effect is stretch (em) ... the stomach ..(em) ... that's all (er) ... the internet find the only one side effect 

 thank you 

 (er) you find dangerous well you have found well this side effect you think can really dangerous for our health 

 dangerous what 

 well this side effect you were talking about 

 yes think is dangerous and will not recommend baking soda think is dangerous and the stretching the stomach is also dangerous 

 because far know well many people use baking soda 

 yes also think that many also know that many people use baking soda but (em) don't know that baking soda have side effects 

 (hmh) yes well now you know about this and you can inform you can well give recommendations not use .. yeah well (hmh) thank you ... any other questions ok well thank you very much well very for is (er) well very complex topic about different drugs and on and 




