my name is  and I am going to represent you my scientific work named pedagogical aspects of the adolescent by Dostoevsky F ... generation interaction and conflict is one of the most  of Russian literature . it was a given a multifaced presentation of Dostoevsky’s novels and the adolescent hold the special place in his writings . the writer in creating of novel about present children and their parents and present reciprocal relationships .. the protagonist of the novel it is to be in the cross point of different pedagogical lines the main of which should be attributed to the line of the his two fathers . a physical one the love and the spiritual one an older Makar . despite the fact that neither one nor the other were intentionally indicating the adolescent both had a strong pedagogical impact on him ... (em) in the presented article we will turn the image of elder Makar representing him our point of view the most vital pedagogical ideas . according to the writer . the teacher`s identity holds primary importance what is successful achievement of the teaching goals . certain methods  and tips I just mean by transmitting at teacher's wide period apprentices ... the elder Makar is a practical Christian (eh) that is a person whose thoughts wide in mood as set out by the Orthodox tenet . it makes him different from other characters and draws the adolescent attention . he defines that differences with avoid  in Dostoevsky's times this word meant the unity of beauty kindness and truth . in the process of upbringing the adolescent seminars played an important role since arose in the student attention to the teacher's personality created unnecessary conditions for the assimilation of the knowledge passed on to him ... (eh) this happened through the basic pedagogical method which Makar used in (eh) incredibly forward his abilities and resources ... Makar's conversation could include one several people at once a unique feature such of conversation was the fact that he made his apparent uses feel as if he as if they were equals . we suppose (eh) this is the manifestation of the Orthodox young man with the image of god in one soul comes first and one's individual characteristics aside ... by the town meeting with Makar the adolescent's idea of (eh) the meaning of his life had already taken shape . it is also possible to change it on by the persuasion method the compulsory condition of which is mutual understanding . therefore the example has become the main a method of Makar's natural pedagogy . its main form became the figural graphics stories of the older showing examples of the current Christian life (eh) the history about the leader mentioned Skotoboynikov and perval about Mary of Egypt .. the particular importance of example is emphasized by Makar's own words . man lives by a good example . Makar uses the method of collision not limited the adolescent  and not is body is well his family finds out to be young man  of the holy church my dear and if the time costs for it die for it or wait a bit do not be frightened and on be at once now perhaps you do not think of it afterward you will think of it and something more any good thing be thing yourself to do do it for the sake of God and not for envy stand for family to your course and the lack of way through any sort of qualities in the Russian turning about . well that is all I wanted to tell you only a custom yourself to pray daily and unseasonably . last Makar's wise actualized one more pedagogical method . an exercise as a result Arkady wants to pray loans the rules in rituals of the Christian life do all it specious and humility .. to sum up Dostoevsky shows that pedagogy effectiveness is the term primarily by the teacher's pay and body in his life Makar applies the methods of pedagogy anomaly but achieves its main goal . (eh) his apprentices a burdens of falls destructively dangerous goal and begins to form the idea of a new  the new idea I only need an idea says Arcady .. (eh) Makar's pedagogy became a natural extension of Christian life and this of method tradition of Orthodox church and teaching . further development of this idea will be in measure atheism seen in the novel Karamazov brothers . (eh) text analysis confirmed (eh) some changes in Arcady's characters and Arcady's idea . Makar's appearance in Arcady's stimuli his rightist step appeared to be the most profound impressive for the adolescent he starts bill the earning for these seminars . a cleanness of that dirty unclean idea (eh) happens and results of it is Arcady's renounce from his old idea his refusal of blackmailing Akhmakova with the letter and the creation of the notes we know as a novel .. from now from now I does not a pop in the text as often as it used to do in the beginning of the novel Arcady admit that all he needed was a father he loved so much it was unbearable .. he says I do need to dream anymore everything I need is you . he keeps (eh) rational idea aback and size to end to the University .. doctrine Makar was  is that equally beautiful was able to replace Arcady's idea fill idea is one . (eh) that is all I wanted to say thank you for your listening if you have any question please feel free to ask them

thank you ... I wanted to ask you in your personal (eh) view . if you have the situation of people coming to church . and there is a churchman a priest who explains things to them .. will you call this situation situation of pedagogic


thank you so much for your question actually it is hard to tell (eh) . because (eh) . we need to understand what remain what we mean (em) in this concept


that my question was about actually ya . well so how do you understand pedagogy then


I think that pedagogy is a process (eh) . well a person (eh) tell (eh) something to other and make=makes his world view change that’s pedagogy main goal in my point of view


well then when my boss tells me something to do .. and that changes my behaviour (eh) my way of teaching .. yeah whatever is that pedagogy


I think it is . (em) because way to use pedagogy is something that happens only at school or a teacher talked to his students and (em) .. and they tell something educational to them actually it is not pedagogy in . a general meaning it's the impact one person has act another


isn’t that too broad . because we are influent yeah we are influencing people all the time anywhere  so the whole life is pedagogy them everything we involve is pedagogy isn`t that too broad to be definite concept then


well I think it has something to do with (eh) the amount of impact we have on every person . (em)


yeah probably . that is what I mean probably this is something else that we should define from the very beginning . and then follow that understanding . (eh) another one I wanted to ask you you showed the interesting (eh) I wouldn't call that pedagogical methods in plural but some steps the five steps that make up a pedagogical method yeah and this succession is probably important here .. (eh) does this succession remind any of the existing pedagogical systems before Dostoevsky.  isn't he borrowed any kind of pedagogical school


(em) .. well to my mind it seems like pedagogical methods (em) have produced by any writers since (eh) .  so yes Dostoevsky borrowed some of pedagogical ideas but he made them look special because he combined those ideas with the Orthodox standard and it was his special feature


yeah what I mean is do you know any (eh) pedagogical schools which employ similar methods . and Dostoevsky maybe closed to some of them


unfortunately I didn't study a question so carefully so I don't know any pedagogical schools


yeah probably that would be my second step in doing the research work like yours . so if Dostoevsky is a pedagogue he’s implying some kind of systems his novel what (eh) the (eh) was the previous experience in that sphere  he looks someone else or he`s unique the world view that we can understand only through comparing him to something else outside his novel

