 good afternoon dear speakers and the panel . I'm  and I'm a student of 10 grade of  . and today I would like to present a research paper devoted to evaluation of absorption capacity of entorosorbents of different structures . why? . yes we (um) . right . yes . (um) . this particular group of drugs being chosen for a study . (um) statistics reports about two hundred sixty cases of domestic poisoning . (uh) per one hundred thousand people a year in Russia and about about a quarter of which does not survive . one of the main first  measures for poisoning is in the entorosorbents . and the sorbents presented on the pharmaceutical market by a large assortment of names in the right price range . (uh) they have different absorption capacity and accordingly different therapeutic effectiveness in this regard. it is important to compare the absorption capacity of enterosorbents presented on the pharmaceutical market . (uh) . our city Petrozavodsk . the purpose of our research work was to evaluate the absorption capacity of enterosorbents of other structures . hypothesis the absorption capacity of activated carbon uh is not lower than the absorption capacity of enterosorbents of higher price category .. tasks of research . and so what is enterosorbtion and what is the sorption process . enterosopbtion is a method based on the finding and eliminating where's toxic substances from the gastrointestinal drugs for therapeutic or preventive purposes . and sorption is the process of collecting molecules of gases vapours or solutions by the surface of a solid or liquid substance . the body on the surface of which sorption occurs is called absorbent and absorbed substance is called absorbate . (uh) . the effects of drugs is the ability to bind poisons directly from the lumen of digestive organs as well as to suppress or weaken toxic allergic and inflammatory processes .  a lot on detoxification and excretion organs . by the chemical structures . (um) sorbents can be divided into charcoal sorbents, sorbents based on natural and synthetic resins . synthetic polymers and non digestible liquids . silicon containing sorbents . natural organic sorbents based on dietary fiber  green pectins and  and combined preparations containing two or more types of above mentioned sorbents. enterosorption is used in medicine for the treatment of a wide range of acute and chronic diseases are campaigned by toxicologists . the the advantage of uh enterosrption are the rapid binding of the toxic  in the gastrointestinal drugs reducing the resorption of the poison . (uh) . it's disadvantage consist in local contact with the toxicant resorption of the toxicants at the P H gradient of the medium . a negative effect on the  of the gastrointestinal tract and the possibility of abrorption of useful substances . (uh) the efficiency of use of the use of (uh) enterosorbents also depends on its absorption capacity . so we conducted an experiment to compare their absorption proprieties of enterosorbents of different structures . (uh) we took samples of enterosorbents of different chemical structures and belonging to different price categories which corresponded to a single dose per adult . these are well known Smekta Polisorb Filtrum C and charcoal . they were placed in glass flasks and mixed . (um) with one hundred milliliters of solution of phenolic red . (uh) first we stirred the solution for five minutes and then for fifteen more minutes . during this time the color of the solution gradually changed . which indicated a decrease in the concentration of the dye in the (uh) solution due to its abrorption . (um) to determine the initial and residual concentration of the absorbate. we used the method of spectrophotometry which is based on the measurement of  spectra in the optical region of electromagnetic radiation . according to the results of the experiment we (um) compiled a comparative table based on the data of which we came to the conclusion . (uh) that charcoal has the highest suction capacity while Polisorb possesses the lowest one . however . charcoal sorbents can be traumatic for  membranes of digestive organs . (uh) so in case of erosive and  of gastrointestinal tract . it is better to you Smekta or Polis- (uh) or Philtrum-C that do not injure them mucous membranes of the digestive organs . (uh) in conclusion . we would like to note that our hypothesis was confirmed in the course of study . all the studied enterosorbents are different in their absorption capacity . but it did not depend on the chemical structure . chemical composition of the drug or the price category of drug . the clinical effectiveness . often the enterosorbents is affected by their adsorption capacity as well as the presence or absence of side effects additional properities and the ability to bind (uh) microorganisms and heavy metals . (uh) since enterosorbents are often used by or prescribed to people with poisoning it is important to know the factors (uh) responsible for the quality and effectiveness of a drug in order to be able to choose the appropriate (uh) drug . therefore I hope that the information that I provided today will be useful for you in the future and thank you all for your attention. 
so so far . well you've just analyzed only these well (um) . drugs of this medicines . yes . you've just may be introduced and presented here on the through your presentation . but (uh) why have you chosen only these (uh) medicines or these drugs or and then maybe one more question just to follow up this one . (uh) . well would you like to continue and investigating maybe (uh) and  adding some more samples?
 thank you for the question . and yes . (uh) this (uh) adsorbents was chosen . (uh) were chosen because (um) we . people used . (uh) it very often (uh) it is popular adsorbents and (uh) adsorbents presented on the pharmaceutical market by largest  of names . and (um) . yes I will continue my research work because it is a very interesting topic for me and I think I will do more . do more (um) decisions in this topic and do (um) contribution more contribution (um) in the future

