 now . now . (eh) we've got another speaker . that is  . and . an interesting topic .  is going to talk about stereotypes about the English language .. so  you are welcome 
 yes . one second please .. 
  . is it about the English language or .. well English 
 no . it's in . most about (eh) people who live in UK 
  yeah . sorry 
 just a second . well . do you see how I change the slides 
 yes . yes  
 okay . let me start .. good morning . I'm sorry . good afternoon dear board of jury participants and guests . let me introduce myself . my name is  and I'm a student of the eleventh form of the school seventy-seven of the Perm . and I'm here to present you my work . stereotypes about the English . truth or fiction . I am pretty sure you all will agree that we live at the time . when we are surrounded by a huge amount of information given to us from various mass media sources . they cover a wide variety of topics and in this or that way form our consciousness and influence the way we think . it can be said that it even makes us express stereotypical views in some spheres . let me continue by saying that all the students of our country learn such subject as English . where they are taught the language and the peculiarities of the Kingdom and its people . they are presented the information and are made to believe every single world word . and this means that we need to know what the British are really like . people must dispel stereotypes and think globally . so we consider the topic of our research relevant . we decided to find out analyze and understand . whether people believe in stereotypes about the British and whether this distors their perception of the nation as whole or not . the object of our research . was national stereotypes . and the subject was stereotypes about the British . so . the purpose of our research was to identify the degree of distorted perception of the British nation by the students of our school . and their parents . and the tasks you can see on the slide . as for the hypothesis . we suppose that if a large number of people believe in the false stereotypes about the British . then these stereotypes influence people's perception of the country and its inhabitants . which as a result leads to misrepresentation of the nation . in the eyes of the majority of the population of the world . if to speak about the stages of my work . I started with the theoretical part . devoted to the following questions . then I passed to a practical part . for this . I conducted a survey among the twenty students of my school and among their parents . the survey was conducted with the help of Google forms . the respondents were to answer nine mostly open-ended questions which did not drive them into frames . you can see these questions on the slide . through the survey we find out what students and their parents know about the British and in what aspects their opinions differ . analyzing their answers . we came up with interesting results . comparing the results of the survey with our assumptions . we can say that some of them were very predictable and concerned . this were the answers about the favorite British drink . about the weather in England . about the number of accents . and about their belief in stereotypes in general . besides . there were some of the results that surprised us . we said people had a slightly different opinion about . the food of the British . about the situations in which an Englishman could swear and about the number of red buses on the streets of London . generally speaking . students' knowledge of the English are distorted by sixty-six per cent . and parents' knowledge are distorted by fifty per cent . have a clear vision on . which stereotypes are false and which are true . we drew portraits of stereotypical and truthful Englishmen . you can see them on the slide . the stereotypical Englishman . constantly drinks tea . he eats oatmeal for breakfast . (mm) lives where the weather is always bad . and . it often rains . he speaks perfect English and has an accent as all the Englishmen . he almost never swears and seldom meets red buses and often . I'm sorry . meets red buses on the streets of London . because there are a lot of them . speaking about the truthful Englishman . he drinks coffee more often than tea . it's shocked me very much . he eats something hearty for breakfast an omelette with sausages . for example . he lives where it is sunny on forty per cent of the days . and it rains less often . he spea. he doesn't speak perfect English . and has his own accent . (mm) almost never swears and seldom meets red buses on the streets of London . as there are not a lot of them there . to sum up . I want to say that thanks to our research . we learned what stereotypes exist about the British . which of them are true and which are false . we learned that the students of our school and their parents know about the British . and most importantly . our work has led to greater awareness of people on this topic . which is no doubt very good .. thank you for your attention . if you have any questions . I will be glad to try to answer them  
 (eh) . thank you  . thank you very much . well .. dear participants . yes . it`s okay .  yes  
  great job . why did you choose to study British stereotypes instead of another country . for example  
 as I'm studying in English school . I have learned this language from my first grade . and . I like this language and this country so much . so . when I decided . when I was . were thinking about what topic to choose . and what country to choose . (eh) it doesn't . it didn't take (eh) a lot time to decide because . England . is that country where . there are a lot of stereotypes . I learned . and I read about stereotypes about other countries . but England was that country that take my attention more  
 thank you  . and (eh) my question . if you don't mind . (eh) do you think (eh) . no .. how can you explain that some sterotypes like rooted more deeply than the other ones  
 I believe that . (eh) some sterotypes are more known because people tell them . from one to another person and . due to this fact . (eh) some stereotypes (eh) are more wisely presented . (eh) with between people . so . more people believe in them . and in fact . this is a serious problem . because not all stereotypes are true and not all of them are . great . and some of them really can spoil the . representation of the nation 
 sure . okay . and what stereotypes . or which stereotypes . (eh) did you stick to . before you started this research 
 (eh) .. can you 
 I mean (eh) . were there  any stereotypes that you personally believed in  
 ah I understand . yes . I thought that English people . (eh) drink tea more often . and as I said earlier . it was . I was shocked that they drink coffee more often . but . ten years ago . they were drinking tea more often . so . this stereotype has became false . only ten years ago . also . I . (eh) thought . that weather in England isn`t . such . as it is . I said that it rains more often . (eh) and (eh) about red buses also . I thought there are that there are a lot of them . but no . it is for tourists more often  
 right . thank you . thank you . that was great  
 thank you  
 yes . more questions please guys  
  . would you tell me where you got the information about the real Britain  
 I read a lot of books . (eh) about . on this topic . and also different sites . scientific sites .. where . I used them to find the information 
 thank you 
 thank you 
