 you see the presentation 
 yes can (er) can you make full screen and check that you can move between the slides 
 yeah ... hello let introduce myself name . student the tenth form English language school number seven and (er) researcher research title emoji that you all forgot English classes school studied the history religions and you know Islam any depictions people animals are forbidden when started learn Christianity was really surprised (er) the icons this religion and wanted learn its meaning I wanted learn more (er) the aim my research to look into the meaning the icon symbols and their interpretations and get better awareness their coherence between them (er) technologies are taking over (er) our world more and more every day  and smart forms became integral part our everyday life and digital messages the late nineteen-nineties the emoji appeared in having non obvious similarities with the religious gestures emoji appeared replace some the words digital messages leaving the question how far is relevant to achieve (er) the aim I have accomplish some objectives the first to search into symbolic hand gestures orthodox 
 I'm sorry I hate say that but again cannot see the slides changing 
 ????? ??? ?????? ????? 
 we're still title slide 
 (erh) and now 
 yeah now can see another one 
 (er) .. order achieve the aim a number objectives have be accomplished the first to research into symbolic hand gestures orthodox icons then compare and contrast certain gestures and their interpretation and emoji and trace the interrelations icon and emoji gestures . objects my research are are the gestures the icons the orthodox church and the emoji gestures and interrelations between them (er) subjects the research are possible similarities and differences between icon gestures and emoji (eh) and during the research compared (em) gestures the icons and emoji then tried classify them into different and similar ones ... the course my work a number icon and digital images were analyzed well open internet sources the theme gestures and icons traditionally according orthodox canons there exist seven canonic depictions icon representing gestures so (er) above left that's hand and heart the next two open palms (er) below that's the blessing right hand and the next (er) arms ...across the chest 
 I'm afraid the slides are not moving again maybe it's better share the whole screen we are really sorry about we don't know why this keeps happening 
 and what slide now 
 now can see the slide with some icons yeah 
 okay shall repeat again (em) about 
 no I think remember 
 (em) the next three icons and gestures the icons are the beginning the speech special attention and last but not the least that say ... (er) further on. have studied the emoji some emoji have religious gestures are visually similar and can used different spheres like for example I say and the goat then folded hands victory hand and the blessing hand (er) the meaning emoji and icons that's again the next Internet source sources that have learned according the sources I've explored that there are similarities the interpretation certain gestures (er) furthermore interviewed teacher the orthodox gymnasium who also priest and questions (er) was interested where.. what meaning the gestures icons convey and it possible for emoji become interpretations icons? ... (em) the information obtained showed among the emoji and gestures the icons there are similar ones and only two absolutely identical gestures if you look the slide we'll see the gesture the goat icone`s the hand Jesus Christ often depicted this way thus pointing the gospel his hand indicating special attention this sign also known have been appropriated some musical movements and there are two versions its origin the first that from the icons and still means special attention and the second that the horns the devil and means hell or rock ... the next gesture folded hands this sign has the same meaning the icons and the emoji means prayer but sources that have been studied proof emoji this gesture originates from Japanese culture and (er) means please but addition means thank you ... (em) victory hand and (em) the blessing hand these signs are similar appearance but they are radically different meaning . (em) the emoji means peace (er) and it's called victory hand there while the icons it's called the blessing hand and that's the letters C C that's abbreviation (em) from for the Greek (er) word Jesus Christ his name Greek based my research several conclusions can drawn . emoji digital messages can decoded different ways certain emoji might interpreted nowadays not only the way they should but surprisingly meaning different things from they should .. should what expect them represent the practical relevance my work to help build awareness the meaning symbolic sign and promote better communication between (em) people different cultures ages beliefs and cetera (er) the work deals with only with one aspect the question . research this direction could continued it could study not only the similarity the items gestures but also for the reasons for them . (em) thank you for your attention I'm ready answer your questions 
 thank you are there any questions from listeners ... was wondering about the following aspect your talk (er) originally emojis far know come from the Japanese culture which quite far away from the orthodox religion and why you try find correspondences between these two very distanced phenomena 
 okay (er) thank you for your question first all I always knew meanings some hand gestures and emoji . when tried (er) explore and try knew toknow something about (er) gestures the icons I explored that they are similar and maybe you know (erm) emoji have not only Japanese origin but also (erm) from some Western countries as have said before some gestures (erm) originated from other cultures .
 are here talking about particular present cultural meaning, the meaning one culture some universal language Have you observed similar gestures Latin American`s Latin American`s cultures paintings in African inscriptions 
 didn't touch this upon this question but think .. didn't touch this question 
 your hypothesis that they are parts European culture only ... these gestures and these meanings 
 don`t know. don't think that's only part the European culture but ... because was interested the icons the orthodox church christianity try compare them 
 see any other questions 
 great. thank you . you talked about standard interpretations different emoji emojis. have idea (er) but question .. (erm) are these standard interpretations standard meanings codified some form do you just believe that most people use for instance this emoji thank you please sign 
 (mhm) (er) before the research (em) tried understand this and asked some my friends also tried find in the Internet .. yes these gestures these free emoji gestures usually (er).. used with this meaning 
 yeah but you were probably talking you said your friends and people who share your culture your language and many other things I wonder (hm) how universal these meanings are so for instance can really sure that most people I don't know around the world use certain symbols certain meanings I know that with some emojis there wide variety meanings that people ascribe them (hm) my question would (hm).. you consider this variation your research do you believe this be relatively straightforward issue 
 (hm) think usually these gestures are interpreted this way so, yes 
 they're interpreted this way you and people you have talked but many people with whom you have not talked they might interpreted very differently they may indeed interpreted this way but you don't know that the basis your ehm study. well thank you. think it's very interesting talk 
 sorry. but want say that found the information in modern dictionary so it's written there maybe 
 That was first question it codified some form and now you're saying that there in modern dictionary maybe yeah. maybe explains something thank you. 
 there anything else anybody would like know have some time for one question no.. not thank you very much (er) you may stop sharing your screen and we'll move to another speaker 
