 It is both a big pleasure and privilege for me to be able to speak to you right now and in the language understood by more than a billion of people across the world a language so prevalent that it is . completely dominating the fields of . informational technology and economics . and this is English at history turned out differently English  would that be in such a big lingua franca in our modern world and this is why I believe . that various other tools across cultural communication should and can be creative .. this is why the topic of my presentation Interslavic language ... Interslavic . is the constructed language . unlike naturalistic languages evolving over the course of human history . constructed languages that created over a relatively short period of time for a specific purpose they are mostly artistic created to  add flavour to a picture universe such as elvish in the lord of the rings .. Interslavic is an auxiliary language meaning it is supposed to promote communication between various people .. Slavic languages share a long common history having been controlled by a small handful of states . and empires for the past centuries . Slavs have developed . a . dialect continuum in some parts of Europe . which means closest versions of various languages are well understood . the inspiration for Interslavic was modern standard literary Arabic . a language used for politics and media by all Arabic speaking states regardless of the the   versions Arabic language . in similarity to it Interslavic is heavily based on Old Church Slavonic the first literary standardized Slavic language . it is supposed to be in the linguistic center of all Slavic languages understandable to any Slavic speaker ... of some works regarding needs usage and understandability existence Serbo-Croatian Czech and Polish .. (eh) information Interslavic in Russian is pretty scares and it is known wide and it is not widely known to Russian audiences . this is why I ultimately believe it oops my . work my report could be of some use . I started by attempting to calculate of find what is called linguistic distance the degree by which languages differ from one another . it is difficult to calculate objectively . the linguistic distance when we are not talking about natural languages it involves studying effect of language on trade on history or studying additional languages of the same language group .. since Interslavic is created artificially this is not a possibility .. the first big problem I stumbled upon and this was an achievement of my report. is lack of effective standardisation . language is mostly spoken in internet people  in this spot people generally interpreted the way they wanted . people's pre-existing preferences in language affect their speech to a certain degree for example in their biggest Discord community for Interslavic there was a history involved in which all the changes big prominent and  community made to entire service . language were documented . this lack of standardization of grammar is not an issue . however with vocabulary it's quite a difficult story .. a single word in Interslavic can have multiple translations . for instance a little can be translated as nemnogo which is the Russian form and trohu which is the form more familiar to Ukrainian and West Slavic speakers . this means that in any given conversation the little separation between various speakers of the same language will still remain and it's difficult to calculate exactly how different Interslavic is from any given Slavic language .. I attempted to use the Swadesh list a list the most common lexemes vital for translating a text or . measuring linguistic distance . when using the Swadesh list I found that if taken if simply taken the synonyms which sound the closest to Russian . the . the similarity between root words in Interslavic and Russian is close to ninety seven percent . however . if the most unfamiliar roots to Slavic to Russian speakers are taken we get a figure of sixty seven percent which is a very big margin . although the average of eighty two percent of my best guess objective of valuations can not be made . from then for standard  from one word I moved on to attempting ... (eh) to evaluate the language understandability and subjectively I have a total of twenty nine testees present of them with six texts of equal length on topics such as sports science as well as text from simple literary texts . (em) unlike the case of naturalistic languages the level of perception on written or spoken Interslavic was close to the same .. political and scientific texts were understood better by (eh) the testees than non-scientific ones which I can attribute to the prevalence of Greek and Latin loanwords in them . here is a little table you can have a see the numbers that testees themselves gave  on how they understood of  the given texts ... several subjects noted that understanding Interslavic was similar to them to a puzzle they have to employ (eh) linguistic knowledge and linguistic thinking they get now meaning of words from context . this is supported by the fact that subjects more confident in their foreign language ability and those who said they studied English for owner tended to rather understanding the texts as being higher on average . over the course of (eh) the presenting testees with texts I have also asked them questions on what were the most obstructively unfamiliar parts of the text to them . I found that many of them struggled with orthography . the general rules of Interslavic orthography are as follows (em) Interslavic can be frighten in both Latin and Cyrillic scripts and so this is important to know that the letter j represents the y sound in both of these as well as the letters ch sh z and e such as in check are also used in Interslavic orthography ... the most vital grammar for Interslavic comprehension was that which was not found in Russian . the modal verb be is still distant in Interslavic as it is sended from old church Slavonic . thus this verb in conjugated person and number and often replaces the personal pronoun as jesm jesmo jesi and so on .. the detachable particle se which in Russian exists in the postfix sia is also quite common . it can be as understood from the title detached from its verb and moved to the different position . when seeing a se . testees should attempt to recognise the verb it might be attached to in order to fully grasp the meaning . as an example the quite simple javiti se tensing to a more unfamiliar se javiti when the particle is detached ... words marked by the testees are . the following . this with the most obstructively unfamiliar and uncommon which most of the testees marked as not be abled to understand . most of these are from West Slavic or South Slavic languages and speak to the nature of Interslavic language as the linguistic common words . still the level of understanding with  pretty among the testees .. general potential value of Interslavic and its use is quite large it can use for travel as simple words in simple constructions  of basic communication with any Slavic speaker . for study as the languages made in large part of slavists and it is big introduction to slavistics its (eh) availability to understand Interslavic can also help in learning any other Slavic language .. and Interslavic is useful for presenting information it can be used to address the entire Slavic world via websites forums and conferences without having to translate the texts into several (eh) different languages . such (em) experiments of already being undertaken and . as I remember their work quite successful ... this list is sources that I used ... generally (mm) Interslavic to me seems like the most novel and the most successful addition to the culture Interslavic of . pan-slavist=pan-Slavic languages . in my opinion it which is the goal for itself which is being common tongue of Slavs speaking  of each for understanding which very little  dom . that is all
 
thank you very much  . that was a very insightful report (erm)  are there any questions from the participants … no (erm) if not maybe later (erm) I have myself a couple of questions because the topic seems quite interesting to me . I was a bit confused about the (eh) states of Interslavic as a constructed language . does it have the stable grammar and dictionary
 
(em) this is Interslavic has a (em) regulatory body the Interslavic commission which is established by its creators and they even have (eh) yearly Interslavic conferences which are commonly held so well the grammar of the language is standardised (eh) the vocabulary seems to be shifting because the process of accepting new words and people language is (eh) . it is it follows an algorithm which calculates what is the most appropriate word to use article Interslavic languages . so while the official version . pro=provided by the creators is quite well standardised most of materials you can find in the web are created by people and have (eh) lower degrees of standardisation . so learning languages more difficult
 
right . am I understanding correctly that this is kind of a also user constructed language . people contribute to its body of vocabulary
 
yes people can contribute on the official web site creators have established there is a certain form you can fill which if the word you are proposing fits all the criteria established it will be added to dictionary so this is a very collective project
 
thank you . and I`ve got one I think one very short question about the more practical part of your research . who were the testees
 
the testees were for the most part (em) my classmates people from my school people from my extended family and my parent's co-workers ranging in the age of (eh) seventeen to I believe about fourty eight
 
fourty eight . ya . cause I am thinking about the (eh) . the relevance of these (eh) group (eh) in terms of gender . well what was the proportion
 
the proportion (em) I don't precisely remember but I believe it was more female than male . because most of my classmates are female so I would say there is bit a form tip on the scale
 
yeah . then what about the proportion of people let's say under the age of twenty
 
well under the age of twenty (em) I believe about (em) fifteen about a half (eh) let me .. find the  right so (em) seventeen testees were the people from my school and my classmates and the rest were the members of extended family and co-workers
 
I see so gender is a bit of disproportion in to it
 
yes obviously as we can see by this graph for example this is quite bumpy so the sample sizes not digging up to  actually . but the reason underlined trend which can be noticed and intend to conducted  research to contribute to the community of this project

thank you . are there any other questions . 
 
 thanks for the presentation . can we see the graph on more time . right . so am I right that you are measuring how confident your respondence were that they understood the texts in Interslavic correctly
 
yes
 
yeah did you anyhow (em) well did you somehow also measure whether they actually understood the text or are you just measuring the self-reported confidence so . are we talking about people really understanding the texts or are we just talking about people thinking they understand these texts
 
(eh) it's actually subjective I initially intended to create some sort of (eh) quiz or survey that would let me see how well understood the (em) .. the meaning of each particular sentence but I realized that this . not (eh) that's not accurately represent so here we see subjective perception (eh) which is (eh) intended goal so people with higher general scores tended to underline less words and less parts of the text as being difficult for them . so this is a general to me a general mark for that . some sort of correlation between actual understanding and subjective understanding exists
 
right (em) just if you want to continue your project further I think this the promising part of it so you may want to still somehow take a look at the actual comprehension of the texts because . as a teacher I can tell you that it is quite open the case that a student or a person believes that they comprehend a piece of text or a piece of . oral speech and in the reality later it turns out that it was you know an mixture of miscomprehension and accurate comprehension so although self-report is valuable and it gives you some information I think that if you want in the direction of seeing whether people actually well did get content from the text that was there and not that they thought was there that could help your project so just minor comment and another thing that I want to ask when you were (em) working with respondence did you get any feedback from them about how they felt about with this engagement with a text in Interslavic so what there was response did they find it interesting fascinating baffling is this something that you know or maybe something that you want to
 
oh yes well several of them commented actually the language sounds close to Old Church Slavonic so (eh) many said that it seemed like a parody of old Russian . when reading this text I have heard the as jesm czar words  from (eh) professions list for times so many found it silly or funny many people also found it eh engaging I remember quite a few the testees remarking well as they said yeah that understanding was sort of a puzzle (em) a little interesting mental task because some of the words sound quite different from Russian if even those share common root (eh) . generally the testees who were apathetic probably did not take a test because I while (eh) testing them verbally also sent several testing forms (eh) so I believe that people who did engage for testing initiative were quite interested in these tests
 
thank you I mean (em) I think it would be also interesting to study this because in your last slide you mentioned the value and the use of Interslavic and the value and the use of Interslavic would depend on whether people are ready or are willing to use it and it is sort of would be interesting to look at whether people really have an interest or whether people are ready to do something like this even so obviously you know close to their native language some might be more into it some might be less into it so this action is also something worth studying thank you

