good afternoon. ladies and gentlemen. my name is . I’m a student of . and I’d like to introduce you to my research work which is called women’s objectification in advertising. so.. (eh) over the last decade a significant shift of roles in (er) in roles of man and woman has been discernible. women obt= have obtained more emphatic position in their society. however. this cannot be seen in (eh) advertising and marketing  industry (er). where woman's body is. (er) still used to attract attention and sometimes (er) there is a typical content with the. gender roles and. (er) shows us  women as submissive (er) unintelligent or overly sexualized..  so. in my research work I. have  a hypothesis that this objectification (eh) in advertising has no influence on sale increasement.. so. let's start with defining what is advertising.  advertising is any paid form of non–personal perse=  presentation on or and promotion of ideas goods and services through mass media such as. newspapers magazines internet or something else... well. it is it is really widespread (er) consumer is exposed to between three thousand and ten thousand (eh) ads each day. well. (er) let’s look at how objectification gained popularity. (er) it was firstly  by advertisers in eighteen seventy-one and (er) shows a naked woman on the back of  .. well (er) and by the (er) nineteen-eighties  the assumption sex sells was truly relevant as (er) the picture (er) as the usage of objecti= objectification sorry tripled actually. and.. let's find out what is objectification. as for me I guess (er) the most accurate definition would be (er) using woman mostly as a decorative or attraction getting objects. with little or no relevance to the product advertised. what’s more here are some notions in which advertisement in which objectification in advertising might occur and what is more there are pictures that are great examples of that i guess and great examples of definition.  I should say because it's ads of suits. of men suits  
 clearly…/B> 
 well. there is a suit. so.. various researchers’ opinions on the usefulness of objectification in advertisements are distinguished (er) on the one hand (er) such content attracts (er) people’s attentions and  on the other hand (er) some found that it causes no effect or even when the moral.. when the morally unjust contact is shown (er) it causes negative attitudes.. so.. (er) to gather (er) information (er) within our research work. we (er) conducted a survey. firstly we decided to gather information about characteristics of respondents such as gender and age (er) then we (er) focused on figuring out their feelings towards different adv= advertisements (er) which shows different ways of objectification. thirdly respondents had to choose a product basing only on ads. in one there was objectification. in other one there was no. and. finally the respondents had to assess themselves. on whether (er) objectification engaged them to buy something or not. so. here are pictures that were shown in our survey. so they had to (er) express their feelings towards that (er) left one or is it oh no it’s right one but we used left i guess so that with red words which I should not pronounce I guess so and then they had to choose between different ads shows suits and jeans. so. the results of the survey are that most of  participants were female and were aged between seventeen and twenty-five (er) the. (er) feelings towards objecti= objectifying ads can be described as angry or furious (er) what's more approximately approximately well this one (er) I’m sorry.  sixty-six and (er) ninety-four percents of respondents had chosen to buy products that (er) which ads contained no objectification.. (er) and finally (er) thirty-two percents of respondents answered that objectification didn’t engage them to buy versus only three percent of respondents answered that objectification engaged them to buy something.. so. all in all we could have observe that objectification does not increase (er) any consumers purchase intention as well as it (er) increa= not it doesn't increase any sales which makes our hypothesis which was put down in the beginning come to the end. thank you for your attention and (er) I'm ready to answer any questions you might have 
 I just want to clarify (er) thank you for your presentation. did you explain to your respondents in the  survey (er) what the objecti= objectification is 
 yes. of course
 so. in the beginning of the  survey 
  yes. my first question actually was do you know what id objectification is and then (er) I gave the definition. and even. actually. I showed even a greater example of objectification which is video 
  but don’t you think that this could also influence the results 
 yes it probably could influence the results (er) and I thought about that but. but there are many other things that could influence that (er) even the simplest one (er) where the respondents actually. for example feminist maybe and girls. they might be feminists. so it also (er) affects results 
 so. for your future research. how do you think these limitations could be overcome 
 I guess. a more personal approach. for example. we (er) may conduct not a survey but an interview I guess (er) so we can find out not onl= so the results then would be more will be more sorry I’m quite nervous (er) results will be much more accurate I guess
 ok thank you… how harmful do you think this continuing objectification  the trajectory of feminism and also just men’s opinions on and attitudes to women in general 
 well. in my work there are. I expressed the topic of harmfulness of objectification and the main one is (er) that these girls is ads are (eh) of course photoshopped and are overly sexualized. so young girls who are looking at these ads are feeling not comfortable with own bodies and (er) they might be exp= experiencing lower self-esteems they might experience even eating disorders (er) in order to be much more skinny  
 and do you think that this is taking  men to see women only assexual objects 
 yes. of course. personally I do believe that men don't see us like this and they are interacting with real women every day.. so still (er) showing (er) women for example submissive can a little bit change their attitude toward= towards us.. that they might think that we can be (mm) persuaded to do something for example (er) only because we are shown as weak persons 
 you compared the objectification in advertising Russia and the rest of the world. is it worse here or elsewhere or it’s a problem everywhere but like. comparatively  comparatively there are pictures. well.. so. you can see a difference actually. it's a great difference. there is a great difference. so. this one that. I should not pronounce is Russian ad and (er) in Russian (er) advertisements we often can see different phrases. really vulgar one. like this one.. and these are for example (er) Versace ad. and another one is.. (oh) I don’t remember which one. and  for English suit company yes. so. they are (eh) they are looking a bit more tricky. they are not so straight. I mean straight like straight of of course. they are showing different women beautiful women’s bodies without phrases
