 speaker today is  who is going to talk about bullying as a social phenomenon in modern world 
…
 (eh) good morning . let me introduce myself . my name is  and I am a student of  gymnasium number six have you ever had an authentic nickname or had some different problems on the Internet so  if it happened it was bullying and today we are going to talk about it .. the goal of the project is to find out practical advises how to prevent bullying … if to recognize bullying as a global social phenomenon it is possible to develop the main directions for its prevention … so bullying is a process when one person uses his power to harm another person physically or mentally . bullying can happen anywhere with anyone in spite the race and position in society but usually bullying happens at school . bullying is also divided into four types . it’s physical  social and verbal types have existed for many years cyber bullying is a new form of bullying that happens on the internet . moreover there is an impressive fact that Russia is the most developed country in cyber bullying … as we can see on the screen there are three participants of the process of bullying  a bully  a victim and a witness ... to investigate the topic of the project we analyzed three films about bullying  Russian Soviet film Scarecrow  British collections of films Harry Potter and modern American TV series Thirteen Reasons Why . in all (eh) films bullying is directed to a newcomer in the class or school .. (er) four types of bullying are presented in modern TV series Thirteen Reasons Why first and second films have only three types . physical  social and verbal . and the  of bulling . only Harry Potter had a positive experience and after bulling the main hero Harry Potter became stronger . his friends who were witnesses supported him . in the Scarecrow  the ending is rather neutral .. (eh) the girl just moved to another city . but in  Thirteen Reasons Why the optimized is really punishing . the girl who putted to become bullied ended committing a suicide ... our second step to find out the answer how eliminated bullying was an international survey among Russian  British and American teenagers . we interviewed five hundred teenagers and to get replication we used three social networks Instagram  Vkontakte and Speaki . Speaki is an application to learn languages communicating with natives .. the survey has shown us that in Russia bullying happens because of social disparity and social environment in Great Britain it takes place because all people look different and some of them can’t stand out a society and in the United States of America because of policy of inequality . also all the interviewers said that we can’t stop bulling but we can make situation better if we make some efforts ... so bullying is an issue which must be discussed and prevented . the research help us to make some pragmatic advices how to prevent bullying . in my opinion the most important point is not to be afraid to talk someone about the feelings and experiences . also there is a special trust service in our city where you can share your bullying experience with a professional psychologist … we discovered the breakthrough of the project . the main role in the process of bullying is given to the witness . it sounds impossible but a witness is the only person who sees the conflict from the both sides . he has a will intense to react if he sees bullying and prevent all the consequences so if you become a witness please don’t be indifferent . react fast. Influence . communicate and don’t be afraid to show your position . if everyone is afraid who will solve the problem ... we always thought that the main role was given to the bully as the main aggressor . but no . witness can stop problem  prevent bullying and even save someone’s life . everybody can become a witness by chance . parents  teachers  classmates and friends  it doesn’t matter who only your fast reaction makes a sense . so bullying is not an unstoppable process it was is and always will be . but only we can make people more kind and tolerant  more attentive to each other and to reduce the level of bullying .. thank you for your attention  if you have any questions I will be happy to answer them 
 well thank you for such an inspiring presentation so . any questions

 actually quite expressive (em) .. work . (erm) and (eh) could you please show the slide with the description of your survey 
 this slide 
 no   yes  right .
   first 
 I am particularly impressed by the volume of the answers because five hundred answers (erm)   … 
 yes I worked for this survey for two years   
  for two years
 and my question was how long did you collect the data it`s amazing 
 yes I interviewed my friends from Russia and their friends (eh) in Instagram. I asked (eh) (eh) people from Great Britain and in Speaki I (eh) found some (eh) teenagers from the United States of America . so I (eh) increased my language skills and (eh) did my research at the same time
  we called snowball  when you asked friends of your friends it’s called snowball  
  okay . any other questions 
 do you personally think that bullying can be stopped 
 (erm) I personally don’t think that bullying can stopped but we can (erm) … (erm) make the level of (eh) bullying (eh) .. we can decrease the level of bullying (eh) people can communicate with each other (eh) the government (eh) can develop some laws (eh) and (eh) …
 what is the most effective  
 I think the most effective (erm) … the most effective (er) .. way to .. prevent bullying to .. (er) is to communicate with people . because you will find someone who will help you and (erm) … you also can communicate with  a professional psychologist because (eh) … he know (eh) his (eh) work and (eh) some ways of (eh) . preventing your problem 
 I have a question . it is a very nice (er) presentation   .. well (er) . do you think in any link bulling can help (erm)  because from the story of Harry Potter you said at the end of the day he was like because of the bulling  so my question is do you think like bullying in the society can help like global equal  
  thank you 
 well thank you for very interesting question . (er) in my opinion (eh) bulling (erm) don’t make people stronger  he only .. it only .. (erm) destroy people`s life because some of them can be depressed or like in the example of (eh) .. modern TV series Thirteen Reasons Why (eh) another day there are a lot of (eh) accidents when people committed suicide as a result of bulling 
 so thank you 

