 hello name today will tell you about colour affection people ..(em) I've chosen this topic because I'm fond psychology ... need do following tasks ... colour has always surround people the past anything have remained their natural form even then people understood that colour affected people they paid lot money print fabric produce ... we were look around the lights the draws our attention things compete with each other get attention for the event and that leads lot development colour psychology ... for example take airline whose passengers use only their planes (eh) the best safety record not not important color consultant (em) the correct colour the cabin has reduced the passengers nervous tension they can have positive experience during the flight each person would prefer one more colours depending where they are ... (em) have you ever noticed that the most business meetings attended people the car (eh) that because you are mostly driven businessmen when you exit the parking lot from the office and see lot blue cars because the owners have balanced character many cases colour choice based unconscious processes reflection one's personality ... (em) these are all colour people's lives this obvious famous psychologist Max Fisher balked colour psychology (eh) found that the perception colour individual the different allows to know the subjective state with the colour test ... general seven different coloured cards are available the from all the tests they have found all seventy three college sports which consist twenty tones and shades They are fourty three different choices ... (em) used express test eight color cards through research I conducted study among people consists poll and two stage observation ... the result the poll you can see this slide almost all teachers convinced that influences mood among students (em) twenty seven percent not think ... we can see also teacher are more ...(em) the first observation was about the colour associated with the mood turns out that the mood the students the beginning the week was associated with those brighter colours while the end the week was associated with darker colours the teachers have the opposite effect (em) the second observasion was the choice colour that particular day the week and one interesting thing came out students attributed the colour the day the week at the beginning the week they prefer dark colours and the end the week they prefer lighter colours the teachers did not tie the colour the clauses the week protested for observation analysis they can see clear difference between students teachers and the mood different days the week well the choice clothes ... can concluded more people not associate with their mood means and choice colour causes and experienced more varied emotions the end the week in contrast adults try manage their mood with the colour their clothes (eh)... the reason they chose not speak our character but also able influences our mood and energy especially an older age ... thank you for your attention and you have any questions I'd happy for answer thank you much again would like questions from the audience 
 actually have question first all thank you for your work was really interesting listen you I have quiet cliché question but anyway tell please about your personal experience with colours (em) are you affected colours what colours you prefer wear for example clothes (em) ... for example ... like white colour and when wearing their clothes (em) feel good right well any questions from the audience right yes thank you for such interesting topic and think it`s very actual nowadays can you tell please does colour always (eh) ... says the truth no we can mistaken with the colour too ...(mm) colour (mm) ... don`t say all true but help ... can help you ... with (eh) people communication with people thank you I would have question you commit question the following what was your research hypothesis why did you ask this research question about colours and days the week and the mood (em) I've chosen this topic because past topic was about how (mm) ... what personal ... preven ... what personal preven can use (eh) picture in picture thank you













