so . (er) first of all hi everyone . (erm) I’m  . (er) a first year student of (er) HSE faculty of economy (er) I like to talk about the paradox of consumption . so as we know consumption has always been one of the most intrinsic part of economy . (erm) like the whole economies is founded on it . and the higher it is the greater (er) becomes GDP . since sixty percent of the world's GDP consists of consumption expenditures . (erm) so (er) yeah . so but.. undoubtably (er) consumption ..suggests a lot of measures for economy . but does it I mean is it that perfect as it seems to be . (erm) in this day and age (er) we are living (er) in a consumption a consumer society.. where people always tend to how will all that luxury . (erm) as recently was mentioned by  (er) Wind Hein in his happiness and nations (er) pointed out the optimal society . (erm) well that people have been looking for . so (erm) searching for of optimal society we (er).. came across to (er) consumer culture . (er) so (er) individuals nowadays (er) purchase and consume not in order to like satisfy their needs . but first of all and mostly they consume and buy product goods (er) to be at a high social level . (er) the notion of being at (er) high on social status in front of everyone in others eyes is put in perspective . unfortunately may be like . so . (erm) anyway . so nowadays(er) like this all stuff product goods that were word of mouth  a couple of months ago . (er) now may not be that fashionable and considered as (er) (er) out of date . (er) consequently (er) people are to change the product goods at a great rate . So moreover being surrounded by multifarious amount of (er) commercials claiming that we do not (erm) like correspond to I think change fashion (er) accelerate this process even . (er) so now people I mean we all are sick with . (erm) we are all sick with consumerism syndrome (er) consumerism is the consumerism and all . in general it creates high standards that even if not everyone is able to reach but everyone strives for and  that now not products are adapted to (er) people's demand . but either way around like people (er) demands are adapted to product goods to be like (er) again to have a high social level . (er) so (erm) like the whole lifecycle of people is mostly about consuming . (er) but (er) the fact is that we we consume and trash too fast . (er) like for example in North America nine percent of (er) consumer goods (er) are being trashed within six months after being purchased of course . (er) and this all of course (er) results in increase in amount of waste . so (er) due to waste dispose rate is too high . (er) recycling processes (er) are not able to handle it . (erm) so consequently (er) waste (er) ends up in land (er) landfill sites . (er) and now (er) let's talk about (er) ecology . (er) so (er) it's not hard to grasp that recently (er) given arguments are (er) are also resulting ecological problems . so (er) people always (er) go against (er) ecology to satisfy (er) satisfy their needs . (er) then we (er) all as and they do it as (er) Illingt writes in his article (er) called (er) consumption society from if I’m not mistaken (er) they do they go against nature by slogan (er) consuming for consumption . consequently we still (er) I mean (er) like problems such as desertification (er) deforestation scarcity of resources and pollution still exist . (erm) according to statistics (erm) be= (er) between nineteen nineties and tw o thousand sixteen (er) world has lost . (er) we're lost about one point three (er) million square kilometers of forest . it's actually (er) the recovery is taken into account . and it's important comparison (er) the area is larger than South af= South Africa . (erm) so . (er) and we people (erm) we are using more and more resources to produce more product goods and as we know (er) that factories they (er) they cause (er) of all that (er) contamination of air water (er) environment in general . (er) and which is maybe like (er) bit pity that we (er) we use more resources we harm (er) nature to live to consume and live but simultaneous= sim= simultaneously we are damaging the nature and as a fact (er) in the future it can like hurt us as well . like a chain of paradox . so . actually (er) sometimes it's hard to suggest some solution (er) some suggestions to avoid manmade disasters . but (er) I try to give some solutions (er) before then I want to say that . I want to say that (er) the solutions may seem banal and the they are not easy to (er) imply . (er) and they need (er) a great amount of time . so first of all . mainly (er) this society the ideology of society should be changed . mean (er) culture= cultural values should be transferred from consumptive values to the economical ones . (er) and secondly (er) the technology should be enhanced like (er) they . (er) as (er) you may know (er) we need technology that doesn't hurt (er) environment . but that's not the only factor . we need (er) some kind of technology that (er) will give us a chance to (er) use (er) resources rationally . so (er) that's all . (er) thank you for your attention . and
any questions
 what do you think . is it really because of consumption culture . (er) or maybe it is also about the (er) growth in (er) popul= world population
that's one of the reasons as well because (er) you know (er) actually there are some more reasons for example be= being an economist . I understand that . (erm) yeah I understand that (er) the solution for this problem is (er) so weak and  sometimes it’s hard to find them but (erm) as you know (er) producers (er) those who produce all product for consumer goods are (er) they kill killed to make us enthusiastic about all thal it and consumer goods . actually they have some strategies like for example (er) planet of soul essence and received  if I’m not mistaken like. for example when you go shopping like when you (er) wanna like drink coffee you (er) say as you know the cup is plastic or that plastic like bags . (er) yeah . therefore first full not ecofriendly and technically like (er) they are (er) when you use it you just dump them right . it's it's somewhat it's more . that's why they the like process of trashing for dumping is so high . it's the rate of
ok any other questions
may I ask . do you think that this is do you think that the environment and actually trying to become more sustainable and eco friendly is something that's important to a young Russian people . is it something on your mind is it that we need to make a change to the culture or planet
(er) you know (er) and as you know the theme is products of consumption but I personally I’m an economist I mean I’m studying economics but I understand that (er) it's so hard and almost impossible to like get rid of this problem . I mean people need to consume right and our population is growing (er) each year like . we became one more . but anyway (er) I hope that or yeah actually I hope that in future we we will be able to have some solution and like figure this problem out properly
thank you . any more questions
well I’ve got a question and a little story . (er) well first of all thank you for presentation I hope that it . will help us save the planet . once . well I’ve read an article about a guy in United States who became a billionaire in his thirties . well he was so happy about this . (er) so he was buying a lot of stuff . and once he stopped feeling that I’ve got too much of everything around me and I spend a lot of energy to just to use all this stuff . and he made an experiment . he counted everything he has and decided to have only one hundred of items . well I’ve got only one shirt or two pair of socks and one bathroom and that's it . well one hundred of items and he was so enthusiastic about it and he thinks that it's a good recipe for him to stop the consumption . it means like that you've got one hundred of items and you want to buy something more like one more book . you should come if you've got already one hundred . you can not buy one more . you should throw something before or like not throw . but well recycle to donate, or just sell something yeah . and then you can buy one more . well do you think is it a real story for Russia because in the US is very popular right now . there is a lifestyle called minimalism . probably you've heard about it in book and film . and well people in the U S who have got well a lot of stuff to buy to sell and that's it . (er) well is it is it actually (er) a little . well is it an actual topic for Russia
first of all was he religious like I mean not everyone is ready to abolish all that stuff that they have . (er) if you're asking about Russian people whether they are able to do that or not . you know for me personally my opinion I don't like segregate people in nation like (er) Russian not this like they have this  or that you know everything depends on the person self . like (er) if you morally are (er) like ready to like do what's in your mind you will do it (er) no matter who you are: Russian American (er) British . (er) it doesn't matter actually . but (er) if you like when we get it like (er) generally yeah I guess . of course Russian people are (er) also able to like to this kind of stuff cos (er) it's not secret that (er) Russian Russians are the (er) Russian (er) . I mean famous with their hospitality . I guess you feel it . I hope actually . so . 
no no no no
and there . so yeah . but my opinion is it depends on the person itself . I mean you can (er) all like ... how to say .. you can think everyone should be the same in one country
