okay . good evening I’m  and topic of my presentation is social roles curse or blessing and I want to start my presentation describing a situation that occurred (um) when I was in school with my friend . she crossed the line of subordination during the lesson by joking at her teacher it led to embarrassment . and it seems quite interesting to me that such situations occur every time we mix up our social roles . and here I see the disagreement of her two social roles . the one that she played for her classmates . she is an amusing attractive person with whom it's interesting to communicate and the one for her teacher (uh) she is a diligent student who is interested in the progress of her education . she's always polite and smart . if she has had acted as a student not like a main during that very lesson this situation . it wouldn't have been so confusing for everyone and our life is full of such social roles . it's impossible to live in a society without them . we also cannot get rid of the social roles at all as they are the basis of our communication . a social role for us is like a list of characteristics co=characteristics a person should have in one and another situation and the fact that we use social roles does it mean that we realize their existence and reflect on it . we can even have no idea about what it is and how we can rate the usage of one and other social roles . that's why i conducted the research in order to prove that social roles are essential to understand the correlation between the age of a person and the number of hours he or she spends on the social roles and to analyze the impact of the number of the social roles on the sort of a happiness of a person . and first of all we should understand the meaning of a phra= of a term of a phrase social roles . (uh) on the slide you can see a definition that is found in the dictionary social role is the characteristic or expected social function of a personal thing especially in a particular situation or environment . (uh) this term was put forward in 1930 by two independent of each other American sociologists Lauf Clinton and George Habit Meet . they defined and understood its meaning differently . Lauf Clinton consi= considered it as the unit of the social structure expressed by the system of the norms that is given to a person while George Habit Meet described it as a role play in which a person puts himself or herself in shoes of another one and then assimilates and adapts . therefore this process of adaptation forms social part of the personality . during this process we also learn to see ourselves through the eyes of others . as far as my research is concerned i conducted a survey in the form of a questionary that that you can see in your handouts and then i collected raw data constructed a graph and find correlation coefficients . the results of my work showed that people of age from eighteen to thirty one spend much more time on their social roles than people of other age groups . it means that the number of social roles that we have increases from the beginning of our life then it stays practically the same . and in the ends it decreases . my results prove the opinion of Robert Merton the children and (um) seriously ill people have few roles fewer roles in comparison with adults who usually have many of them . (um) moreover I found that people with large number of social levels feel exhausted at the end of the day in comparison with other age groups . that's why i can assume that our social roles require continuous attention and endless supports to sustain them properly and the proper community a person . so here one question appears appeared in my mind if it's so difficult for us to play our roles . not to confuse them then why do we need them . and the answer is following social roles is like the model social role is like the model the idea behavior from society's point of view . all the roles were made for one purpose to make the existence in our society possible and comfortable . for each individual social roles give the opportunity to implement the features of our character . in our social life and every role that we have can help us to realize our inner traits that we have no idea about . social roles tell us what to do and we are free to choose how to do this . we can do this professionally and effectively . or we can look false and unnatural . however the flip side is that sometimes we are tired of our social roles . and the reason of this can be a limited capacity of our memory . our mind its biological structure just doesn't imply the process of endlesh endless unconscious thinking and reflection on the social roles . (um) and do you remember a girl from the beginning of my presentation the one that confused her social roles . I hope you remember and now I can confess that was me . I have a set of various roles for every person so it's not a big surprise that I confused them . my mind stopped thinking and gave me a random model of behavior (um) my roles helped me to become who I want to be to pretended that I’m better than I am . to hide my real face to protect me . nevertheless in order to avoid bad consequences . (uh) we shouldn't fall into contradictions between the social roles that we have . we should try to unify them and the best thing that can help us in unifying social roles in a number of principles . speaking about about my personal situation . I can say that the lack of the principles led me to the point where I started to confuse my social roles . nevertheless I still consider social roles as a blessing and they bring more merits than demerits  in my opinion
I just can't do anything
and what  do you
I’m sorry
it's okay
it's the time actually
I know the last sentence and what do your personal think . are social roles a curse or a blessing . that's all
so can you answer the question . are social roles a curse or blessing
I expressed
you mean like a legal answer or a real one legally I’m obliged to say they're a blessing
but in reality
but in reality I don't know . a actually I got some questions about (uh) how
methodology
how did you crunch the numbers . basically you presented us the table and the table and
it's part of a table
yeah yeah
in the description you can see
wha= what are the quality and satisfaction . are they already arranged or
oh okay . actually it's a huge research . (uh) for this research I had to get acquainted with some basic rules of (um) making up questionaries and here I used some skills . (um) for people to choose to mark mark up and I used in in particular I used seven degree . seventh q
seven scales
yeah . seven scales
so what were the scales so age hours quality satisfaction
and also I had in my survey there were additional questions . for people to to relax to understand the problem . and some questions were (um) just empty not real not useful for me because I know some basic rules as I’ve already mentioned and I wanted to get real data (um) and help people to express their real (um) dumb ideas . thoughts yes
can you please explain the graph it's all dark here so
I understand sorry for that . actually you can see . (um) the graph illustrates the dependence . (um) a little description (um) .  between
can you show it on the slide
again okay I’m sorry . I just closed the presenta= yeah
so is lower better
I thought it's like cool . oops . (mhm)
yeah just a little bit
it doesn't include controls
I see too dark
how it was discovered
people and their
and this is like the portion you came up with
(mhm) and then by this function we'll have a disfunction I pond correlation coefficients and the correlation is very strong . also I made up more graphs (uh) with more dependencies . (uh) for example (uh) I wanted to connect . I wanted to connect my results with some other to extrapolate my results for example with some suicidal specific and I’m sorry
so all everything was used . it's you just you showed the graph with only two scales and you talk about the seven . distance
so did did you think that there's some kind of correlation . not only between the age of a person and the number of social roles that he has to play . but (um) between the profession
professional groups of
yes . professional groups . once again the number of social roles
educational level
(um)I think that (um) there is definitely there is a correlation between uh the profession and the number of the of their social roles . because for example if you have higher education (uh) you work for example in a company in a big company you for example you can be head of this company . and so where you have more responsibilities you have more people under your span of control . you ha you have to meet other new people and compare . and this can be compared with a person (uh) with just basic education in general . I don't know . compulsory yes (um) education . it doesn't (um) this person I think has less (um) people to communicate has less social roles because
and what about satisfaction
oh the satisfaction levels . I think that my personal opinion is that if you know more it's worse for you . you think more . if you know more you think more you reflecting and you'd get it . it gets you in trouble maybe some times . and if you were just . know nothing . no know not so much . you are satisfied . you are happy
less knowing worse thinking
 uh 
less knowing worse thinking
it's like you know the opinion that silly girls are the happiest people because they . don't understand the world how it works
I think I have a question about the presentation about your presentation you have mentioned that (uh) that the term social roles (um) introduced by two psychologists but a caveman understood that so many men don't really mind . but (uh) which of these points of view appeals to you more
okay . thank you for your question . (uh) uh I think that the opinion of George Habit Meet appeals me more because firstly it's easier to understand . it's not like (uh) Ralph Clinton's the number of characteristics one should have it's not so understandable for me but George Habit Meets opinion that you put yourself in shoes of another one is like . more understandable and more I don't know real and I have I can imagine make up some examples . for example examples of illustrating the idea of George Habit Meet
and what is the average number of social roles that we have to pay to play with for example 20 or 20 something or thirty or thirty something
one second
I’m forty so how many how many social roles
based on my graph I’m trying to find it
I can see the correlation between the age of the number of hours not to the number of social roles
ah social roles
teacher wife mum a friend a neighbor
I cannot unfortunately I cannot give you like a number that okay you have them like forty roles
okay not not me not not me but on average
um I think that we should (um) one second . we shouldn't . (um) . think in this way we shouldn't (um) estimate the numbers of the social roles . we should estimate the hours in my opinion because the number is like too . it's like a specific case isn't a specific case and we should estimate the hours because you a teacher the whole day
yeah but why (um) just can't understand so I think . so the most difficult thing is when you switch from one role to another but you then have to play it only like a couple of roles a day . and then not to test for you
is in for you (um) as you already said you are like forty and for you it's okay . you have not so many roles like for example . I have more roles because I’m on the top of this curve
because you're a young girl
and it's as I already said it's hard for me . sometimes I confuse them
do you think that in that case is it too many questions
it's okay
do you think that someone can like sort of provoke you to to to
to have another one . to create a role
yes to cross the line and to play another role (uh) 
I think yes it's possible . for example in a community you know in school or in the university . now there is a term like peer pressure . (um) they can influence you a lot . (um) for example in my case I choose to (um) to be closer to them . (uh) because I joke I was working on my teacher and there is a case there is a chance of case when teacher provokes a student to do some not really good things not in your case not in your case
and probably the teacher . (um) sort of got confused with his or her role as well and that yes that was what provoked you to become another person to deploy another role ... any other questions ... okay . now thank you very much . thanks everybody 
