 good afternoon dear colleagues start with name .. colleague .. are first-year students specializing business administration and are happy be participants this conference ... part today's event would like present product that satisfies the needs various social groups ..we were inspired launch this project people ... people who are not indifferent the current global issues people who care who are willing take risks order find their vocation life and who are subsequently involved peer work with their love patience and commitment ... in turn look to such people and the project that about be discussed the first step towards achieving our goal 
 that no secret that unemployment complex phenomenon that has negative effect our standard living how many times have you heard that your profession not demand that the market oversaturated with people your line business any statistics show that one three graduates may choose not pursue career based their university degree and initial qualifications and the number vacancies and the number candidates ready fill ... them are growing about the same rate but the actual standard education does not meet the requirements most companies (er) the relevance the research topic lies its social implications the oversaturation the labour market with low-qualified specialists increases the shortage personnel which provokes contradictions between companies and potential employees the goal our project to develop the universal manual that will allow future managers easily navigate the labour field the Russian Federation well .. compensating for certain imperfections the education system the objectives the research are follows to study the most promising professions the third decade.. identify the job requirements applicable future managers ..to analyze the domestic and western labour markets and compare some the current views the most popular areas the labour field our country
we would like start with the origins the project last october part our career guidance seminar we  formed team like-minded people (er) our task was create atlas managerial professions and our opinion the magazine format was the most suitable ... (er) initially our guiding star was (er) the atlas the new professions put together Skolkovo unfortunately the product developed Skolkovo doesn't seem me the expectations the young generation terms the (er) choosing profession which no doubt banning issue that young people feel very strongly about our project more narrowly focused since its zeros on specific type specialist managers extensive feedback from our colleagues combined with our own profound analysis enabled to adjust the trajectory our projects. as take to the next level we ultimately came out with adapted version for the magazine which based more authoritative sources and reveals the contents each specialty more detail as well looking more compelling and aesthetically pleasing as far our research methodology concerned our team used field research the study required complex approach therefor both qualitative and quantitative tools for data collection and analysis were applied more than fifty authoritative resources were analysed including boarding business and closer magazine scientific journals and open access resources ... the atlas now also available English 
 suggest moving the the content now the atlas modern managerial professions magazine which change the idea what manager the future can .. the atlas consists table contents and introduction tips for navigation through the atlas ten profiles ten professions description the methodology and analytical tools supplied as well an editorial letter and conclusion the atlas covers wide range aspects from recruitment working the public sector our team identified the following employment options with good career prospects you can see the slide 
 .. believe the atlas modern managerial professions forward-looking guide designed optimize the self-identification managers school children students and people who consider changing their line work can use the magazine reference book they will able look into the future and find job taylored their needs and personal preferences job that will (er) contribute improving our country's economy (er) we're also convinced that our projects can used the municipal level for instance schools and other syndicational institutions we sincerely hope that the higher school economics will support our initiative and together we'll able create more advanced product aimed solving the problem providing the economy with qualified personnel
 summarize our research findings would like highlight the following key points first most the professions the sphere management have not disappeared without trace but have only been transformed meet the standards modern society second the russian labour market you can sought-after specialist you choose your specialty correctly and get good university degree third it necessary constantly improve your professional competences because modern employers are interested versatile specialists in the future managers are forecast have wide range options choose from (er) which should allow them focus their aspects which are close possible their personal interest and the last managers should think outside the box the key quality successful manager the ability facilitate the personal communication and teamwork solve problems and show ingenuity synthesis thinking outside the box and strategic approach every project could regarded critical success factor the above-mentioned ideas are reflected our unique product the atlas modern managerial professions which we hope will become source relevant information the field management for you ..  can only only wish you pleasant and fascinating reading this concludes our report and thank you for your attention 
 well thank you ever much both for your fascinating report and for your know-how and thank you for sharing with .. (em)  I'm sure there will questions cuz have product here you know and something really really special and practical use so please 
 thank you have couple questions ... (er) and is very very interesting topic because you know the number professions growing highly and the specializations are also growing ..  and that very interesting that you take deeper look into these fields and get into account the trends which influence both labour market and the education ... first question about your research if get well you did both qualitative and quantitative stages the research so you first were searching something and then ..calculating something can you please give shed some light these two stages may get you wrong 
 excuse can you repeat your last part the question 
 can you can you please shed some light the qualitative and quantitative stages your research 
 (em) for example we have (er) statistic analytic ... procents (er) ... procent statas magazine and some characteristics about the professions 
 okay so at the first step you were selecting this information from different sources and then you were looking for numbers yeah 
 yeah 
 okay this not purely quantitative part but still it's okay ... second question about the goal your research and the subject  you are thinking about it considered now that there .. that people change their profession five even ten times during their life and this means that you not need develop yourself looking ..  some profession but the contrary you ha= you need develop different skills and it's more and more (er) said about so-called t-shaped people who have for instance major managing area in management and thus they have plenty managerial skills and they have minor IT and this gives them some skills from the very different profession ... (er) did you take into account ..this trend your research 
 yeah of course we've had (er) we always pay attention the newest information and the newest technology new tendention our study process and in. future professions 
 okay great and how you think what should added modern education make more precisely fitted the labour ... market
 think that answering this question we can say that in our university we have (er)  such opportunities (er) (er) really ... don't know how say ... however to ... educated well-educated different spheres management and .. and take part different projects ... different spheres your profession ... (er) because have some minors (er) you are student one educational program you can also can have some useful knowledges some other spheres (er) ... ... our education
