 hello. dear colleagues. name (er) and the name my scientific work be like Parma. play with Parma. (er) presentation will divided into three parts (er) introduction.. main part and the conclusion.. the end my speech you can ask questions.. (er) let's get started... so.. (er) the object my scientific work (er) advertising communication.. the subject clubs external communication program using augmented reality technology and gamification.. the goal (er) develop advertising campaign of. the clock using gamifications and augmented reality technology for greater involvement club fans and guests of. the match.. and (er) you can see asks. (er) will return that later when will make conclusion... so. what gamification.. is the process using (er) game strategies and concepts (er) attract and retain users different areas human activity.. (er) benefits gamification use (er) firstly. increase and retain audience. for the company. (er) means that gameplay always interesting people (er) whatever they their age. is.. this could help company retain. and increase audience.. secondly. this more (er) participation than presentation for the consumer.. consumers. can take part presentation advertising. something.. thirdly. useful product (er) experience for the consumer.. where people interact with the product from advertising. they get some experience... (er) what the augmented reality (er) this technology (er).. technology (erm)... projection (er) visual objects the real environment. through the camera your smartphone.. (er) benefits of.. use this technology (er) (erm) firstly. emotional connection. consumers can see. and interact with advertising. objects (er) secondly. personalized recommendations.. (er) hyper local augmented reality ads tell users about the places interest (er) them (er) and show them the screen smartphone.. thirdly. sales increase.. augmented reality can as tool increase sales the next way.. for example. potential buyer saw.. advertisement for sunglasses has the opportunity try them. himself pointing. the smartphone camera. his face.. (er) and save money.. augmented reality advertising usually more.. affordable.. affordable.. (er) and more exciting than print ads.. there are some difficulties (er) using augmented reality.. firstly. (er) the need for independent (er) mobile application.today augmented reality works with the help special mobile. Applications (er) users need download mobile application the Apple Store Play Market (er) this requires (er) time and phone memory... but. Today (er) big companies work this problem and create single system air (er) application that. does not require downloading... download ..downloading individual applications.. (er) secondly. device performance.. user gadgets should have (er) high performance for better visualization the material. people (er) are unlikely use.. ads (er) full resolution hence when.. when playing animation.but. the number powerful gadgets (er) growing each semester... so. the club Parma.basketball club Parma (er) was founded August two twelve-twenty (er) enters the strongest European league... VTB United League.. includes players (er) become arena the basketball club Parma the legendary (er) universal play palace. sports which seats.. seven (er) seven thousand spectators.. home games (er) average are attended (er) one hundred.. (er) one thousand four hundred people. Target audience the club (er).. children from seven eighteen years. active young people from (er) eighteen thirty-five years. club fans and (er) basketball fans... Parma use next channels communication. (er) firstly. radio. (er) TV. press and the Internet... (er) so. the concept (er) advertising message.. (er) what user do.. user (er) firstly sees advertisement then downloads the application.. then directs smartphone advertise.. (er) shoots fifteen balls and receives (er) fifteen percent discount the match... (er) interviewed about hundred people (er). among them were basketball fans and (er) potential audience (er) the club.. the poll showed that (er) the people are ready accept this format advertising.many them. for example. are ready download . separate application and most (er) their smartphones surveyed (er) productive and (er) enough reproduce application... so. (er) the performance indicators (er) surveyed number downloads the application repeated. survey.. and the.. attendants statistic.. the way. this gives the club (er) application with users information about users.. (er) new subscribers social networks and (er) repost from the application... the conclusion. would like (er) note that use AR technology and gamification the new stage the advertising industry. (er) less intrusive and more interesting for the consumer (er) than simple advertising.. the moment. the project (er) the implement stage (er) during the entire process. developed (er) concept an advertising message. calculated the advertising budget. conducted survey (er) developed and tested application.. thank you for your attention and (er) would like show you the video how this application works...
 thank you very much. questions please.. was interested know. you've said that it's not intrusive. less intrusive than other advertising how that less intrusive surely it's app your phone. thank you very much 
 (er) is less intrusive because (er) consumers (er) can... interact with augmented reality objects.. but (er) they cannot (er) interact with other advertising messages 
 you've mentioned that (er) the participants your poll (er) were already fans the Parma and basketball.. but don't you think that this application would also popular only among fans.. so. this application will not help attract some new audience 
 don't think this. because.. (er).. made the poll (er) with the... colleagues from university (er) some students and (er) they liked this application. they don't show interest basketball.. but they are ready interact with this application 
 okay. see that they may like the application but doesn't mean that they will to the (er) Parma basketball match 
 (er) can you repeat slowly 
 so. mean. even (er) the audience. like the application. doesn't mean that they will to the basketball.. see the match 
 (mm) yes 
 so. what the aim the application 
 (er) can't say (er) the most people surveyed (er) they liked this application and (er) they said that they (er) will have interest the basketball the future.. and this (er) the criteria the successful.. (er) this project 
 thank you 
