good afternoon thanks for coming . my name is  and I’m a software-engineering student. the title of my research is major principles of customer friendly software development . (er) in the report I address the issue of creating user friendly software . tools and designer the solutions for the establishment of (mhm) convenient and user-friendly interaction . (er) much famous software development companies are still popular due to lack of (er) the competitors . (er) programmers who get used to com= to communicate with (er) their professional colleagues and not with users (er) sometimes (er) make (er) the most important decisions and it has some negative consequences like (er) avoidance such programs products by users and their attempts to (er) find easier and more pleased in work software . (er) the main objective of my research is to allocate the main key features of customer friendly software which make interaction process easier and to achieve the objective several tasks are to be solved (er) to analyze literature on the subject to allocate (er) key aspects of customer friendly software and to prove importance of allocated features . (er) so first I’d like to give you a bit of background . user-friendly is (er) subjective term ... (er) nevertheless there are (er) several commonly agreed (er) features that make software user-friendly (er) color combinations preliminary settings grouping controls on the basis of usability and similarity and the other is functionality . I’d like to start with color . color influences (er) on human’s perception in several ways it determines perceived along time and (uh) readability . in two thousand and four (er) Glound Reaparty and others proved (er) that (er) light green (er) or blue background colors are associated with shorter (er) perceived download time than standard yellow or vivid red . (er) according to statistics which was constituted by Ben Chelly in two thousand businesses lose a lot of more than four billion dollars annually because visitors don’t (er) don’t wait (er) time consuming pages to download and this problem may be solved partially (er) with (er) competent color selection . also (er) color combinations influence (er) readability . (er) the research of (er) the most used color combinations had been conducted by Haul and Hannah in two thousand and four . (er) results show (er) class (er) that the most readable color combinations are classical black text on white background and light blue text on black background . (er) both white and cyan text on black background are less readable . many professionals devoted (er) interaction development in different articles and books and famous (er) American software designer and (er) programmer Alan Cooper is no different . he wrote that absence of pleminist= pleni= sorry preliminary settings (er) is perceived by inexperienced users as serious (er) benefit of software because it allows (er) not to waste time to configure different program modules . sometimes users haven’t enough time or desire to (er) set up (er) a new program . (er) if it doesn’t provide them opportunities (er) to meet (er) at least a part of their needs (er) they will find (er) better way to get what they want . like in future (er) they will (mhm) devote their time (er) to figure out how to get more features but not many people want do it at the moment . (er) Cooper marked that (er) program (er) grouping program controls on the principle of (er) similarity and usability helped to reduce (er) search time of necessary tools . (er) sometimes when software companies start to create (er) new program they don’t focus on main (er) users groups . (er) it is a poor decision to start to develop a new program without upfront planning . if developers want to create for example (er) . oh I’m sorry (heh) it is (mhm) (er) sorry (er) let’s consider the last version of the program Microsoft word . main tab contains a lot of useful options but how often do users (er) use all of them (er) (er) a number of equally useful tools are included in other tabs . (er) it forces users to (er) feel themselves humiliated and start and improve a chance to make (er) a mistake . and a person who can’t find a necessary tool (er) become nervous and his desire to use this program (er) goes into the thin air . and finally the other important aspect according to Cooper is functionality . it should (er) meet users needs depending on their requirements . when software companies start to (er) develop new program (er) the new program (er) (er) (er) they can (er) don’t (er) can they don’t focus on main user groups . (er) and (er) if developers (er) start to create for example (er) a simple photo editor for casual use by non-professional user and not for professional (er) experienced (er) designers or photographers (er) it is not a good idea to fit all existing tools in this simple program . (er) conversely it’s recommended to use the shortest possible compelling and really demanded (er) instruments range . users will be happier if they won’t need (er) to waste their time to master a new program . taking everything into account (er) the research (er) the result of research (er) provides information about major principles of customer friendly software development which should be (er) covered by developers and it is correct color combinations (er) preliminary settings (er) shouldn’t binding (er) and grouping controls on the principle of usability and similarity and functionality should (er) (mhm) (er) should meet users’ requirements . that’s all thank you for attention . (er) if you have some questions (er) I’m ready to answer
thank you 
there is an idea that for some customers there is no need to use such like very complex tools (er) and methods in programs so we just need some buttons with some functions . and what can you (um) ... what can you offers to such programs .. basic programs
(er) in Alan Couper’s book (er) is (er) is a solution for this program (heh) problem I’m sorry (er) (er) 
 for example I think maybe the color it is a good point because for example in paint as I saw on a kite  
I’m sorry don’t understand your question correct
program (um)  and the design in some programs in Windows is not so great in my opinion (er) maybe they can use like more cus= cus= colorized colors for example red
 (er) as I know Microsoft has (er) some gui= style guides and (mhm) simple users can’t (er) change (er) (er) interfaces (mhm) but if you want to create a program without Microsoft and other companies (er) you can provide users (er) some tools to set up interface
 uh-huh I can do that yes 
yes
  can you try analyze user interface of (er) web applications of Internet project for example Internet so= social networks (mhm) not only table not only Office . software
(mhm) it may be used (er) also in web interfaces it is (er) unique principles (er) both on desktop (er) applications and for web (mhm)
so you mean your principles are . sort of universal
(mhm) (mhm) (heh) yes . it’s universal
I was just checking whether I got you right
can you list the examples of (er) bad luck projects bad luck (er) web applications in your opinion
 (hmm) for example Microsoft Word (heh) it also it offe=
no no product (um) industrial project internet project
 oh (mhm) I can’t remember right now 
our university portal LMS ... what about LMS
I think it’s (er) may be better if students who created it will (er) (mhm) more (er)
not functionality but (er) user interface 
sometimes (er) they are hard to (er) found find necessary tools and (er) often I (er) click some buttons links (er) to find what I need and it (er) I think that it is a waste of time it may be better
ok thank you
 a question
yes I have a question you touched on subject of creating like two kind of interfaces for usual users for professionals do you think it is necessary to have some kind of a variant where you could be able to alternate between the two views of one program
(mhm) some companies (er) use this (er) method (er) they have (er) interface for casual users for professionals (er) and sometimes you should to pay for getting more (er) functions (er)which may be (er) showing interface
do you have any examples of such programs
(mhm) ... (mhm)
I can give you an example for example you did mention not the current version but like two years ago which we should buy which provided us with a customizable interface

