 (er) nice to meet (er) at all my name is (er)and I presented (er) the problems of  the protection of trade secrets in the Russian Federation . (er) every year the capacity of development of the market of guds =goods and services in the economic community increases which lead which leads to increased competition in the market and these phenomenon (er) leads (er) to that (er) every (er) manufacture whether it is entrepreneur  or a huge enterprise thinks about how to protect information (er) in secret and how to regulate this mechanism . therefore trade secrets (er) are not disclosed but (erm) the protection of trade secrets carries problems . (uh) the problems of the (uh) of the protection of trade secrets (er) are that the protection of trade secrets is a complex legal institution or which is enshrined in the civil code of the Russian Federation and the federal law (er) on the trade secrets in the Russian Federation (er) but (er) these legal (er) documents do not facilitate (er) the understanding of trade secrets and its application in modern legal reality . (er) and (er) (er) this is (er) highlighted (er) (er) in the law enforcement practice of courts and in the legal doctrine its protection in special economic zones and (er).. the main problem so the protection of trade secrets in Russia fede= in in Russia is the problem of differentiation of trade secrets from know-how and (er) the problem of protection of trade secrets in special economic zones . (er) the first problem (er) is a problem differentiation of trade secrets from know-how . (er) at the law enforcement practice of courts shows that (er) trade secrets are equated to know-how which leads to a conflict (er) of law and (er) based on doctrinal developments primarily the Roman German (er) legal family and as well as the position of (er) professor. we believe that trade secret is more capacious and voluminous concept which includes the secret of production know-how as well as other types of commercial information . (er) the Russian legislator (mhm) Identifies (er) the com= (mhm) the context (er) and the concept (er) of (er) the trade secrets (er) in (er) in chapter (er) seventy five in the Civil code of Russian Federation . and (er) in the medium term (er).. we can expect significant changes in the formation of the entire conceptual apparatus of private law . (er) it should be noted that know-how may not be fully observed (er) by the trade (er) secrets regime (er) for example mister (name of the author) believes that know-how is the object of transfer and relates in transactions and business secret legal entering retains for its own use . (er) for example this may (er) relate to the results of market research may be a subject of transaction . (er) . also (mhm) in this regard we believes that (er) trade secrets and the object of its protection is not any information protected and the discretion of the business entity in inspect to which (er) the confidentiality regime is established . (er) it seems that to add such information should be your primary related to the business activity of the person and (er) here we're talking about the potential can commercial value of such information (erm) its connection with business activities (er) otherwise (er) there may be a confusion (er) of trade secrets with personal data (er) with personal secrets and so on . (er) and today it seems to us more successful legislative interpretation of the concept of trade secrets not through the what information (er) but through the category of (er) mode of access to information and mode of confidentiality of information . (er). and (er). the position of the legislator have not made fully full clarity so the problem of the ratio of trade secrets and know-how he remains quite controversial and of course relevant . (er) as can be seen it is quite difficult for the judicial authorities to determine the diff= (er) the difference of the concept of trade secrets and (er) secret of production know-how to clearly discuing= distinguish when the secret of production know how is only a kind of information or constituting a trade secrets and when this concept (er) actually coincides with the concept of trade secrets . (er) given the current state of legislation using several concerts at once (er) such as production secret (er) know-how and information (er) constituting the trade secret this seems almost inevitable (er) and the legislative proceeded from the fact that all these terms are synonymous ..(er) the second problem (er) of (er) protection of trade secrets is a problem (mhm) and in (er) specific economic zones . it is relevant because (er) …many and many economic activities appeared …(er) every year . and the creation of special economic (er) zones in the Russian Federation will be regulated by the law . (er) it is the federal (er) law on special economic zones in the Russian Federation and it provides for the possibility of creating two types of such zones industrial production and technical implementation . (er) and at the same (er) at the same time the question arises at what stage should access to information be restricting restricted (er) minimizing the risk on unfair competition and ensuring the growth of competitive (er) advantages during the commercialization or innovation in these economic zones . (er) therefore where we take into account the moment when (er) there is a product of potential or commercial value (er) believing that from (mhm) that time free access to information is closed . if confidential scientific (er) technical economic and other information has real or potential value (er) (er) according to the law of the Russian Federation on trade secret (er) can be classified as information constituting a trade secret . (er) however the information created or acquired at the main stages (er) of a technical and implementation activities being by its nature trade secret and (er) and can have different commercial value depending on the degree of readiness of the product for implementation . (erm) innovated (er) innovative projects I identified at the subjects (er) of relationships and research organizations . technology development organization venture capitalist and object relations new developments and items of relationship commercial interests (er) it seems that (er) the organization (er) of relations on the issue over commercial interests (er) and determines (er) the need for specialization of such activities (er) which can be called the administration of the trade secret regime . the purpo= the purpose of these specializa= speci= specialization is a personification (erm) of the responsibility for the development and application of methods of complian= (um) compliance with the (mhm) with the trade secret regime (er). thus the protection of trade secret has its problems (er) in particular the problem on differentiation from know-how and the problem of regulation of trade secrets (er) in special economic zones but for each problem there is a solution . (er) for the first.. (er) problem.. (erm) we can offer that the distinction between trade secrets and know-how is important since the second compence is (er) concept is higher specialized then the first and for these (er) legislator should be distinguish these concepts in the civil code (er) since it acts on law enforcement practice and subsequently leads to the less satisfaction of claims which make it impossible to protect (er) the commercial secret (er) of the plaintiff if he is not the offer of these product (er) and as for the second problem (mhm) it can be proposed to deduce the criteria of for evaluating information that will be later be in the mode of trade secrets and to avoid unjustified attribution of information to trade secrets or (er) underestimation of its commercial significance errors in the choice of methods and periods of protection in the allocation of funds for protection (er) it and a tool is needed to assess the commercial attractivness on the information .. (mhm) that's all I wanted to say ... any questions
oh yes (er) what do you thin think what are the historical reasons for such a situation
(er) this is (er) this is connected (er) with the history of Russia such as the period of (er) uses (er) USSR (er) because (er) . (er) the intellectual property law (er) . and . created (er) in . (er) two thousands (er) whereas (er) . (er) in the USSA (er) USR (er) . (er) we can see (er) . the . law which . is (er) (er) which is connected with . (er) privatization (er) not (er) . (er) not belongs to every (er) entrepreneur or every manufacture (er) this is belongs to the (mhm) goverment
thank you
can I get a questionthank you for the presentation and  interested in trade secrets theme (er) well I’ve I've heard about of course the problem of differe= (er) of diff= differentiation between trade secrets and know-how . that was the first time I’ve heard about the problem about the specific economic zones  could you please clarify once again what's the main problem because as far as I know specific economic zones are usually connected with the well different versions of taxes I mean tax free regime for entities who work in this specific economic zones and so on . so what what's the main problem here that entity is who work in these zones enter such a legal regime of information or what
(er) I think it is connected with innovation process at all (er) . because (er) all processes
has different stages and (er) when created (er) information . (erm) many people (er) work with this information and (er) (er) the competitors (er) may (er) may get this information and (er) they (er) they can produce (er) . whitely (er) (er) widely when (er) the first (er) innovator (mhm) produce these product and (er) so on (er) this (er) . this leads to the problem of the protection of the information (er) about innovation process at all and (er) in the stages of this process
(mhm) well can you continue (erm) so we’ve got some time yeah so well that's (er) that's right that there is a great difference between (er) well for example patent activity that helps you to protect your innovation yes and effectively well protect your patent right if you see that (er) a competitor (er) violates them yeah so well I think that there is  such such a problem between the (er) the . the different regimes of protection your innovations I mean trade secret regime or patent activity it (er) exists in the whole territory of Russia or in the world we can say well is there really a problem in specific economic zones that’s a question well you know what's the question (er) so my question was about that you can protect your innovation in different types of legal regimes right . you can have a patent
yeah
that will be publicly (er) well published . that will be published and everybody will know what's the thing what's your main (er) innovation that you give out yes however you will have some patent protection that will so long and after that it will go to the public domain well what about trade secret (er) you've got such a possibility . however if somebody will copy all your innovation process you can net you cannot protect yourself yes from that violation using only trade secret regime you that's the main problem well that's the main minus of a trade secret regime right now . is there a problem about it in this specific economic zone
(um) . I I can explain (uh) this by the example of (er) of the government (er) production for example (er) when . (er) when innovators creates a new (er) type of (er) . (mhm) . nuclear weapons such as (er) . (er) they (er) cannot (er) to patent these (er) information because (er) (er) it is connected with the government and (er) it . (er) and it's may protect by the trades the regime of trade secret (mhm) because (er) they can (er) innovated with the different (er) partners such as (er) China (er) Japan and others (er) and this leads to (er) . and this leads to the need of the regime of trade secrets in specific economic zones
(mhm) ok thank you
thank you
