(erm) I would like to tell you about the specific features (er) of information perception by preschoolers (erm) ... today child education has a huge influence on society . (erm) well all parents want their children to be smart but not all of them . (erm) not all of them . (erm) wonder what way do their children (er) get information better . (er) American psychologist Barbara Albras Heal and Lauren Broadway discovered that visual memory dominated auditory skills . (er) they described this research in how to maximize a child child’s child's learning ability . (er) thinking about (erm) perception of information by kilts they made the conclusion that there are three types of children (er) the first type who perceive information visually (er) the second type who prefer using the auditory skill . and the third type (er) keep (er) kinesthetics . (erm) ... as the psychologist shows that the first type dominated in the modern world . (er) however . there are only a little percentage of preschoolers . (erm) hope receive information through their ears . and even fewer children who can be called versatile (er) surprisingly but no exact figures were given in this research that's why I decided (er) to carry out my my own study (er) to find out them ratio (er) between (erm) oh . between different ways of how preschoolers perceive information . (er) in this investigation I use not only auditory and visual methods (er) such as a cartoon and a fairytale (er) but also combination of these methods (er) using (erm) subjects presentation as a new as a new way to perceive information ... sorry (er) choosing the topic I feel like that it should be necessarily for society and preschoolers . (erm) I’ve chosen the theme how they can save environment because today lots of people (erm) in the world forget that obviously we should not pollute our planet we have to talk to children about (er) about how people must behave not to save and protect planet . (er) I’ve divided children into three groups of four persons each . two I showed (erm) cartoon called long live nature to the first green group . (erm) I’ve told a fairy tale to the second blue group and (er) I showed the (er) subject presentation (er) probably which is called (er) which which called public and save environment to the third group third red group . all methods of presenting information (er) included the same content (er) after that I’ve done (er) an individual questionnaire with every child that's them butter that presents . (erm) (erm) . the results of my research or for question are shown around the axis (erm) OX OX and the number of children who answered correctly shown along the axis OO OY sorry (er) as can be seen according to the bar chart (erm) forty six (er) and eight per cent (er) off (er) of answers . (er) were given by children who watched their cartoon . (erm) thirty four point two per cent (er) of answers were given by children who (erm) ... who who listened the fairytale and only twenty nine per cent . (erm) these are the answers (erm) by kids who watched and listened the subject presentation . (er) having done this project . and (er) in the kindergarten for preschoolers are five years old . (erm) having received and worked with the data I proved the idea that visual (er) that visual memory dominated . (erm) but it was unexpected (er) that the presentation was (er) the least effective method of perceiving of perceiving information. children remember the fairy tale better . I guess it's happened because (er) most parents fairy tales their children before they go to bed . and children are more used to perceive (er) information through this channel . moreover the presentation . (er) is quite hard for (erm) it's quite hard to understand for preschoolers be because (erm) . it's not a usual thing like cartoon and fairytale for them . (er) so so that's the probable reason why the presentation lost . (er) in conclusion I wanted to say that this project was challenging for me (erm) but anyway (er) I’d like to take part in researches like this (er) for example I would like to make a research between students and pupils to (erm) compare the results . (er) thank you for your attention . I’m ready to answer your questions
thank you
I have a question . (er) children (er) I think students were unreal or no and children you tested went to the childhood or no
yes I went to the child in the kindergarten . yes ... in the kindergarten yes
so what about the fairy tale did you have to like to invent your own fairytale
I’m made a fairy tale based on a movie (er) on the cartoon . because (er) the all methods (erm) should conta= should contain the same oh . should have the same content
ok thank you very much
