good afternoon everyone (em) I'd like start introducing myself (er) name and I'm student the faculty economics. and the topic my presentation today price elasticity industrial electricity demand the free electricity transfer Ural zone. (em) the primary aim the study to (er).. identify the impact price the demand for electricity (er) the price.. (er) has been chosen the main factor influencing demand (er) as.. (em) first glance seems that (er) the (eh).. change=changes (er) price (er) makes (er) consumers (er).. consume less reduce electricity costs. but it a.. really so. (er) (em) basically I've divided presentation into three main parts. the first part will (er) will talk about the determinants electricity demand that were highlighted the previous research and the results.. (em) that (er) were obtained (er) int (er) the existing studies. then I'm going the (er) characteristics the (er) Russian electricity market and then I'll talk (er) about the.. (eh) method and results (er) which where. obtained my study. (er) (erm) for factors that influence electricity demand previous research there (er) there were electricity price. price for electricity and consumption the previous period. air temperature and gross domestic product. (er) this slide (er) you can see results obtain=obtained some (er) previous studies. (erm) (er) you can see the price elasticity (er) for (er) commercial uses various between minus point two (er).. two minus (er) minus point five. and means that (er) the (er) the electricity demand inelastic for price it means that (eh) when the (eh) price (er). (er) that.. (er) when the price grows (eh) the demand changes less than (er).. one percent.. now let's move to the characteristics the Russian electricity market. (er) there (er) there are (er) there wholesale electricity market and retail electricity market. the wholesale electricity market works light generating companies and large consumers while the retail electricity market only (er). small consumers and generating companies that electricity from (er) companies that works (eh) wholesale market works. (er) also the territory (er) Russia divided into twenty (er) three electricity transfer (er) transfer zones. (em) means that (er).. it's means that (er).. this (er).. there.. there are the zones the wholesale market electric energy (eh) within which there are significant system restrictions for thirty percent the time during the month. (er) means that something happens.. (er) one the region which included the zone (er).. other.. other regions can (er).. (em) can share the electricity without (er) without any loss.. (er) the (eh) free electricity transfer Ural zone you can see from the slide (er) there are six regions. (er). Perm (er) Perm region. Sverdlovsk oblast'. Orenburg oblast' Chelyabinsk oblast' and (er) Kurgan oblast'.. (erm)... and they collect data contains monthly information January (er). twenty twelve December twelve eighteen about price electricity for the commercial uses this own electricity consumption and air temperature. however there (er) no.. information about (eh) price (er) for Kurgan oblast' this this (er) this region excluded from the (er) from the (em) examination (er) on the slide you can see the demand function for electricity. this function was estimated with the (er) model (er).. (er) for now it's the best model which suit today's data. (er) and the slides you can see the results estimation such model. (er) you can see (er) there only the republic Bashkortostan and Sverdlovsk oblast' the price has significant effect the electricity demand. (er) it means that (mm).. the price (eh) rises the demand for electricity (em) will (em) will decline for about two point five percent the republic Bashkortostan. (er).. and you can see from the slide also the price for electricity the previous period time also only have significant effect Sverdlovsk oblast'. it means that other regions the price rose, the consumption will not change. (er).. in conclusion I'd like say that commercial demand for electricity free electricity transfer Ural zone price inelastic and has negative effect. and also the price for electricity previous period time has the impact only the Sverdlovsk region.. and thank you for your attention and you have any questions will.. will happy answer them
thank you for your presentation. but. said. always. this. you're. you want better. I'm sure this all that are her for. and your presentation wasn't excellent as.. expected. was (erm) you know you have.. (er) about something that (erm) should like more movement or. sights. and this the body language important and (er) I'm sure.. that you weren't that ready. because you read lot things and usually expect presenter know what is she speaking about. everything. every bit detail. maybe more.. beacuse the questions are usually about something more than the presenter already gave
okay
thank you very much
thank you
who your supervisor

thank you for your speech. maybe have silly question but why this topic interesting for you
(er).. (em) be honest (er) when (er).. started this topic for two years and when (er).. before the third course (er) didn't know all what want study. and when came (em) when came my supervisor (er) saw how she (er).. how she talks about. she speaks about this topic she impressed and (er) yes inspired so and (mm) also think that this topic (erm).. good case show the knowledge (eh).. economy and also (er) econometrics.. yes
thank you very much
can turn the results your study concerning Perm Krai. well is (erm) I'm just wondering about (erm) well your results means that the price changes changes.. (er) but (er) the consumption. energy consumption our region doesn't change. it the case
 my work talk only about. speak talk only about the (eh) commercial uses not the households and
can you think the possible reasons why..
why are these
why (eh) why this happens. why this the case. for example the republic Bashkortostan that the opposite. trend 
the difference (er) are some region (erm) region characteristics. for example (erm).. air temperature or.. like that. the.. how say.. the geography yes
geography that matter. climate. see.. thank you much
I have another question. sorry. do you think. can generalize the results that you obtained for different regions the russian federation. I'm not talking about our county (er) general can you generalize the results you obtained for them
(eh) guess as each region has characteristics that are unique and (er) and they are not just they only (er) weather. air temperature and other conditions (er) economic and (er) development the region also plays important role..

