 so my name is  and I’m going to tell you about the VK and Facebook comparesment (er) the unsafe behavior in a safe world that’s how my research work is called . and I’m going to talk with you about teenagers information safety in European social networks on the example of VK and Facebook . so (er) the problem with adolescents safety in the Internet is amazingly important right now . with the world progress and unlimited opportunities that have arisen people began to forget about their own safety and it’s well known . social networks are an internal part of the life of the adolescents that give a huge number of unlimited opportunities they give (er) they’re . there adolescents spre= spread too much information about them because they usually doesn’t feel any boundaries . so that’s the revelence of my research work . the problem is faced by adolescents in social networks are not caused by danger of sites or some messengers but the by adolescents themselves . how much information about them and how they spread it their behavior all of this can lead to some different negative consequences . but how can people avoid them (er) many will ask this presysle at the propose of my research work . (er) so the purpose is identifying the main dangers face faced by teenagers in social networks and offering alternative solutions to these problems . in accordance with the proposed the following tasks were set comparing the social necklers networks VK and Facebook on the ground of their popularity in young society identifying the dangers hazards faced by adolescents in social networks VK and Facebook and developing certain rules to follow for teenagers on how to behave in social networks . so (er) there were two parts of my my research work the practical and theoretical part . (er) the practical part which is survey was addressed both to the users of Facebook and to the users of VK six hundred people took part in this survey the general survey was compli= compiled in Russia for the VK audience and in English for Facebook (er) users . the respondents were divided into two groups to ten to fourteen years old and fifteen to twenty years old . the survey includes twelve questions . the first three of which are compulsory and suggested (er) of course the answers (er) of respondents as users of VK and Facebook are very different so for example on the slide the results of answers to the questions are presented are you an active user of social network VK or Facebook . the answers there as follows on the part of the VK which is (er) left I think (heh) (er) the majority of users ninety one per cent answered yes and however in the Facebook we see only seventy two per cent . (er) and almost thirty per cent of respondents on the Facebook site don’t consider themselves or find it difficult to answer . to the questions of whether answers are posting inf= users are posting information about their contacts ninety one per cent of respondents from the VK said that they post it out but not all of the mentioned . (er) which information is mentioned is information about family relationship friends and work or school . and only six per cent of respondents answered that all of this information are on their page . (er) most users of Facebook which are more than a half noted that all of the information about contacts is presented on their pages . this alarming because information of this nature’s there very great perform have a very great and first pers= personal importance . but there are simi= similarities of the results users of both social networks are not too aware of privacy settings section or simply do not use it . only forty eight per cents of the respondents users of VK noted that (er) they use the section privacy settings and on the Facebook site are only three thirty five per cents on Facebook . another method of my research work was to take a software analysis of the data that (er) users post out on social networks . since this survey is mainly focused on how users insure themselves (er) and their own security data analysis will help us to see wha= which aspects are clearly (er) unsafe for teenagers in social networks . the study was aimed at finding out which of the main aspects of teen information insecurity . so (mhm) in the course of the study it was found out that the social network VK is much safer for teenagers that Facebook . this due to the fact that VK does not request as much information as Facebook does . in both studies social networks adolescents are not aware of privacy settings section . this confirmed both by results of the survey and by the analysis carried out . during the study of personal accounts it was re= revealed that due to the ignorance of privacy settings detailed personal information is available for all the users . in both social networks adolescents publish a large number of personal information such as photos videos contacts and other things (er) which means that they all also publish information about their personal lives . (er) which is really not great (heh) for them . this approach to the contact of the pages fraud with many consequences such as theft of personal information and even cyber bulling . by the way Facebook users are more often faced with the identity theft and cyber bulling than VK users . the difference in the percentage of answer is more than thirty percents . of course this is due to the fact that adolescents relate to the publication or of information about themselves in social networks . social networks at the same time can be like a playground and a minefield . it all depends on how user is related to the conduct of social networks . therefore it’s really important to know the basic rules of behavior in social networks . the result of my research work is a booklet which sets out basic rules of conduct and how to advice yourself in the social networks . some of them perhaps are the most important some of them are presented on the slide . so you can see (heh) and probably that’s all and I’m ready to answer your questions 
your material is great but you read it like from paper
yes (hehe) I’m a little bit nervous
don’t do it in the future . who are the responders
the respondents are teenagers from ten to eighty years old
country
country it’s Russia Ukraine (um) and other CIS countries and on the Europe side it was England ita= Italy and France
is it appropriate to ask people from Russia where VK is the most popular social ne= social network so I think you should have 
No I think you didn’t understand the research right . I made two surveys like for the VK users and for the Facebook users now . you can see it actually I made it somewhere there it’s like for the Facebook users the survey looked like this and for the UK u= VK users the survey looked like this . so they are similar but like translated
so do you think there is some kind of correlation between the age of the respondents and the . (uh) what do you call it privacy awareness
yeah there is some
like (um) the awareness increases as the respondents get older
yes actually there are some differences between the two age groups like the people younger or ten to fourteen years old are much (mhm) like unsafe in this social network world because they do not clearly understand how it works how it lives and how to not (em) how to be (um) like (heh) sorry (er) how they can  avoid some situations like such personal such dangerous situation like personal information theft . it’s like when someone blocks your page and get all of the information you can ever conducted . and users of VK and Facebook both who are much elder like sixty or seventy years old they usually do not post a lot of information but they aren’t aware of privacy settings as much as the boy younger
so do you think that (um) we post the personal information mainly because they are not aware of this privacy settings or because they just don’t care
(uh) usually yeah it’s like they are not aware of privacy settings so they do not know if so= all of the  people see this information like when you colle= when you do your VK page or Facebook page you can put a (um) like a graph of that this information is not open to the other person or this is opened but they just don’t know about it
so you know in your surveys you’ve shown that (uh) users of Facebook were a lot more free with how they post their information so a lo= a lot more sensitive information they flood it out . did you find some correlation with in the software or at all is Facebook a lot more prompting to (uh) all this sensitive information
actually yes when you create a Facebook page there are like questions about yourself and there are . (uh) twice more questions than in VK like there are questions about where you live where you work address what is your mother’s name what is your father’s name where they work and all of that information like in VK we have what is your favorite film what is your favorite music and they have a lot of things and usually it happened like three months ago they started to post photos and the with geolocation to it when in VK you can just cancel it
