so in the context of a digital economy the main factor of company's success nowadays is the availability of data appropriate for decision making . however the growth rate of the data that needs to be processed is increased is constantly increasing . (er) thus companies need tools for data analysis . and here cyber physical systems can help . this is the first aspect of (er) the (er) our research motivation the second one is that modern buildings are (mhm) used extremely inefficiently . (mhm) electro appliances are left turned on when not in used then there are no operating modes for heaters and (um) and so on . and the third aspect is that available on the market solutions are (um) characterized (mhm) by propra= (er) increased requirements not only to personal but also to operating conditions . that it is very complicated it’s complicated to adapt them for (um) buildings . that is why we develop cyber physical systems in Higher School of Economics and we define them as a class of information systems that integrate computational elements into physical objects . so the goal of the research is to create the architecture of cyber physical system (er) this will lead (er) to the at least four benefits . the first one is that (er) the cost will be reduced the (er) energy consumption will be reduced as well and (er) the (er) comfortable environment for the personnel will be created . by comfortable environment we (er) mean (mhm) the climate outs= inside of the building so the temperature the air quality the light and many other (er) aspects . to create an (mhm) an architecture we reviewed some related works and (er) as I mentioned they are really hard to adapt to real buildings (er) they are not free-distributed and they’re very expensive . that’s why they (mhm) are not really good for our aims . (er) to create the architecture it is necessary to define (er) functional requirements to the system . two main functions were identified the first one is cost reduction and the second one is the creation of the comfortable environment inside of the building . for each (er) of the main functions a lot of subfunctions were identified . we can (er) discuss them at three levels . at the level of physical object which is the office at the level of digital twin and at the level of interface . so the first its (um) physical object at this level system should collect data fr= (er) inside of the building it might be (er) temperature metrics (mhm) m= data what (mhm) about the energy consumption and many others . In the digital . here on this slide some of the sensors that collect data that I mentioned (er) introduced . for example on the right there is sensor for temperature measurements . (er) the digital twin is simply a digital copy of the office . (er) it is where data is processed . it is responsible for predicting system behavior collecting information about possible (mhm) failures . predicting potential (um) accidents . one very important requirement for a digital twin is reale= the realization of energy optimization .. and the last level its interface it just the interaction of the user with the system . taking into account all these requirements this architecture was proposed (er) the most interesting part here is application server of course (er) it includes not only some usual units like control unit and data collection unit security unit but the distincting feature of this (mhm) architecture is that it proposes the unit for energy consumption optimization (um) . moreover . I’d like to tell you more about (er) the highlighted components they are responsible for mathematical (mhm) experiments . (er) the digital twin that I mentioned earlier consists of three components . the first one is a 3D model of the office . the second one is mathematical model and the third one is real data (mhm) collected from the object physical object . the highlighted components (er) help us realize the digital twin . the first one is free CAD it is software that (er) we used to create  a3D model of the room then open modelica is a software that helps stimulate the mathematical experiments and then R and Python are used for data analysis . (er) then (er) the system architecture was and system functions were introduced in hierarchical structures and (er) on the upper side it we observe functions and (er) on the bottom of the (mhm) slide we (er) can see elements of CPS and they are connected this structure helps us (er) identify what elements (er) are responsible for what functions of the system . then value engineering in houses was implemented in order to (er) reduced costs and maintain or even improve the quality of the proposed system . here we can see ... no we can’t . why . all right let us wait minute or two . it will work in a few seconds . (er) I wanted to show you results of the value engineering method implementation (er) it (er) made it possible to propose some (mhm) advices for the system (er) in order to improve (er) to reduce (er) here it is (er) to reduce the cost of its realization . so here we can see (er) (er) oh god an illustration (er) . bars (er) gray bars are responsible for the significance of functions of the system and black bars (er) are (mhm) the cost of realization of the elements that realize these functions . and here we can see that for some elements the cost is much much greater than (er) the significance of the function . for example the third element (er) it’s mobile app (er) after . looking at this picture we decided that it’s too expensive but not very significant and we proposed to replace it by a web application (er) that is adapted for mobiles devices . (er) thus the function of system control (mhm) with help for mobile devices is was made cheaper . and let’s get back to the digital twin . here you can see 3D model of the room where cyber physical system is implemented gradually in our university . (er) currently we have eleven sensors that (er) collect data (er) and temperature at different levels in the room . then control system for lightning and for window curtains are (mhm) implemented in this room as well . (er) the second (er) very important part of (er) digital twin is mathematical model . we created a model that illustrates (mhm) an experiment on heating in open modelica software . so the first experiment is when heater does not have any operating modes and (er) the temperature in the inside of the building the red line fluctuates as well as the temperature outside of the building . this means that energy is consumpt inefficiently . however when we (um) create some operating modes it might be some conditions when heater is not (er) working (er) the situation changes and we see that despite the fluctuations of outside temperature the inside temperature the red line is remaining remains constant . and finally the third part of the digital twin are real data data collection . we (er) realized it with the help of the platform thingsboard and we collect data on temperature and visualize it with the help of this platform however it has much more (mhm) potential features that we will use in future . (er) here we can see that when we open the window or we when we open the door the there is a huge drop in temperature while the heater is still working with the same power . so (um) it’s evident that energy is just wasted . here are some more graphics of the same data collected . (erm) and in conclusion I would like to mention one more time that the significant feature of this system is that it proposes the services for energy optimization and (er) (er) it (er) combines several software solutions for mathematical experiments (er) that we didn’t manage to find in any related works . and this system can be used (er) within the conteps context of digital transformation of the building of the city of the economy in general . (er) thank you for your attention . (er) I’d like to answer your question if you have them 
okay ..  is your system with such architecture (er) scalable and (er) adaptive or adaptable
yes it is currently we are working in just one room but this system can be (er) adapted to the whole building . the whole
 it is scalable .
yes
and adaptive
(erm) what do you mean by adaptive
to (er) .. self-adapt self-adapting . system with property self-adapting
you mean to change (er) of course it is . (er)
 to adapt to consider to conditions changes
(er) yes (er) the components that I introduced they can be replaced by other components if there is such a need for example so I mean yes (er) se= dex the arch the architecture is adaptive as we can (er) replace any component or change them in order to (er) if we get any new requirements
what element of architecture is critical for this (er) for this system
it got 
for example it is destroyed and the system
fails . yes I think there are (mhm) the control unit is the central in this system but however we also got (er) security unit in case this unit fails it also won’t (um) work properly the system won’t work properly . control unit (er) is responsible for managing everything in this system . so it’s essential
do you know research projects in this area (uhu) do you know projects . any
yes we have made (er) . a research and we found some examples of similar
it’s research projects or industrial
research projects yes (mhm) we found them (er) proceeding some different conferences I triple e conferences and researches propose this architectures (er) of these solutions for the same problem
there are many many product idea
yes of course there are much more but
are they interesting ... (heh) ... not to . not only to 
yes of course we just because . we can’t show more on this just one slide
can you compare . toolkits . can you compare (mhm) what advantages or disadvantages
the main disadvantage is that (er) . these structures these architectures do not propose any energy management solutions they are considered only on internet of things so they (er) provide different solutions for light control (mmm) like smart (er) houses realization but the energy consumption is not considered in these architectures
but it will be considered
in our it will be
was that the reason why you chose this particular (um) project
yes
 I mean lack of information on some particular subject
(uhu) we are working on energy management with our professors (er) our research papers our thesis are aimed at energy management . that’s why we tried to (mhm) implement our knowledge in the field of cyber physical systems
thank= thank= thank you very much 
