 (eh) then let me . introduce our next speaker  (eh) who's going to talk about the prospects of gadgets development in Britain and in Russia .  you are welcome 
 thank you good evening . everybody . (eh) let me introduce myself . I'm  . I`m student of the first course . fro . of linguistics . well . just a second ... and now I'm going to present my work gadgets in Russia and  the UK .  current trends and development prospects .. well we live in the twenty-first century . a century of technical progress and scientific breakthroughs . a host of different gadgets  every year and they have become essential part of our life . the study is aimed at analysing the major trends in the development of gadgets in Russia and the UK as well as the way Russian and British teenagers use and perceive gadgets . (eh) research objectives can be seen the screen . the research hypothesis is that certain trends can be identified in how gadgets are developing and how they ... do you hear noise or something .. it's not from me . it is bother me .  I`m sorry . well I continue . (eh) there is such hypothesis is that certain trends can be identified in how gadgets are developing and how they are viewed and applied by teenagers (eh) in Russia and the UK . the following research methods were used . observations survey comparative analysis and questionnaires .. what does the word gadget mean .  a gadget is a portable electronic device which has enhanced functionality but the limited scope of application . usually it is (eh) it's in addition to other electronic devices . the history of gadgets spends as far back as humanity itself . since hominins began creating tools to make their lives easier .. (eh) humans have always been creating devices and appliances for specific practical purposes . which were  as novelties .. in fact . most inventions are based on the newest technology . interestingly the world of gadgets is tiered . devices fall into one of four categories . mechanical . electronic . programmable or . application . now I'm going to . say some words about . (eh) the development prospects in the UK . scientists have created an 
 I'm sorry . we see the first slide 
 I have the 7th 
 no . no .  it's only the first one 
 maybe you can try 
 I will try to .. launch the demonstration again ... is it okay now 
 yes yes 
 well . I will continue . scientists have created a non-invasive adhesive patch which promises the measurement of glucose levels through the skin without a fingerprint blood test . potentially removing the need for millions of diabetics . to frequently carry out the painful and unpopular tests . another device is the third thumb . the third thumb is a three d printed human hand extension controlled by the feet . it investigates (eh) . the relationships between body movement and . the control of body connected technology . the motion of the third thumb is created by (eh) by wires attached to motors on the wrist . the motors are controlled by two pressure sensors retrofitted into your shoes under your toes and (eh) communicate with the thumb by Bluetooth ..  (eh) let's now (eh) move on to the development prospects in Russia . the Russian company 3D bioprinting solutions has developed a 3D printer (eh) called Organaut for producing human organs and tissues . tissues are created by super superimposing cells on each other and printing on several sites at once . the printer does not use any promagnetic structures . which increases the survival rate of cells . another invention is an autonomous street station . the Roselectronics holding has announced the launch of the autonomous street station with the functions of charging gadgets transmitting wifi and lighting . it is a multifunctional flashlight . equipped with rechargeable battery and solar panels . the accumulated solar energy is enough for device to . (eh) light streets in the dark charge devices round the clock and provide a wifi access point 
 sorry . sorry . the slides . they do not change again 
 well . I do not what. what is going on . let's try me again .. is this slide I was talking about 
 (em) it's number eight 
 yes 
 could you just probably switch on to next slides 
 yes yes . I understand . I want 
 yeah . it works 
 okay . as mentioned above . the purpose of this study was to analyse how gadgets are viewed and applied by teenagers in Russia and the UK . a questionnaire was conducted . (eh) the focus group included British and Russian school pupils aged 15 to 18 both male and female 120 teenagers in total . they were asked eight questions . the results are shown on the slide .. so (eh) we can say that . both British and Russian teenagers use a variety of gadgets . the vast majority of teenagers from both countries use their smartphones every day . it is obvious that (em) it is obvious that modern student cannot . live without gadgets . so (eh) most teenagers can't imagine their future without different devices ... the figure of students are thinking that gadgets influence the development of technology positively is high in both countries .. (em) . according to students’ opinion . the social sphere ranks first in terms of being affected by gadgets . followed by the economic sphere . the spiritual and . political spheres ranking third and fourth respectively .. most teenagers in both countries assume that British teenagers use gadgets more often . however . from the next couple of pie charts . it can be seen that British and Russian students (eh) use devices for approximately the same amount of time .. young people from both countries .. use gadgets for making their lives more convenient . the answers to the next question show that both . British and Russian teenagers suppose that the gadgets . are the best modern invention . notably . thirty-six percent of Russian students do not like gadgets at all .  teenagers from both countries use gadgets in almost the same way . the hypothesis seems to have been proven . certain trends can be identified in how gadgets are developing and how they’re viewed and applied by teenagers from Russia and the UK . moreover . thanks to this project I know more about the history of gadgets and different types of them . the most interesting thing I gained from the study is that . the use of gadgets (eh) by modern Russian and British students show similar trends . which .. which gives me the feeling that despite cross-cultural differences . there is still something that brings us all together . thank you for your attention 
 sorry . I forgot to unmute my microphone . so .  . thank you very much . that was great job .. and . well guys . you're welcome to ask questions 
  
 yes . okay .   sorry . yes . yes . it`s okay 
 okay .  it is a really excellent presentation again . my question for you is . (eh) after all of your research . how important do you think that technology will be . in the future in terms of . culture . generally 
 well . it's an interesting question . I think that now when we are live in the globalised world (eh) technology around us and . despite different cross-cultural (eh) . characteristics (eh) .. I think that . people will use these gadgets and for them it will be .. really important 
 may I ask some question . for . add (eh) addition . how can you think maybe . are there any negative or . maybe positive consequences of future using gadgets 
 well .. now . when society . haven’t got such experience . about using gadgets using technology (eh) we can't say one hundred percent about negatives or positives . (eh) . positive points . I think that .. actually they are and there will be some positive sides of using technologies . for example now (eh) we are all at our home and can communicate .. we are from different countries from different cities . so it is one of the .. best point of using our inventions . but (eh) . disadvantages also . have a place in our world . and (eh) sometimes . as girls mentioned . sometimes we . (eh) don't see another .. things another other people around us . and . it can . should concern us a lot … thank you for your questions 
 thank you  . can I ask you a question . so . probably a bit silly one but still . if I got you right . (eh) you chose respondents from Great Britain and from Russia .. so do you think if you conducted the same survey with the respondents from other countries . so . do you think you . (eh) would obtain the same results 
 I think that (eh) results will be similar as I have . but now (eh) I have a thought that . if . for example . I would take another country . maybe . let's say . from the third world 
 not European country . right 
 what 
 not a European country 
 yes . which (eh) doesn't have . the leading position in technology . (eh) I think that (eh) . the results can be different. from . from . from mine 
 I see . thank you . thanks 
 I have a question 
 good . it`s  right. no .   . sorry 
 I want to ask ..  . do you think people’s dependence on gadgets will only increase in the future 
 ... (em) . I think that .. we don't come to a peak of using gadgets . but . when (eh) we .. (eh) .. when we go to this point . (eh) it will be . decreasing . (eh) because (eh) I think that people as a result that .. nothing can change . nothing can . yes (eh) . replace the real communication 
 thank you 
 thank you 

