good afternoon everyone. (er) let start from introducing myself i'm first-year student the Higher School Economics the business administration (er).. (er) and what I'm going talk (er) want (er) present (er) research results (er) the issue adaptation western case Russia mass transit system. (eh) research was rather empirical than theoretical and (er).. what I'm going talk today about. what I'm going talk today about the Mass Transit Road principles its organization and about their applicability Russian systems.. (er) let's start from history (er) get idea how the topic should analyzed (er) (er) the West USA and Europe mass transit was (er).. mass transit history (er) divided into before and after because from the end the nineteenth century till the middle twentieth century (erm) the mass transit systems were developing rapidly and (er) then during process automobilization most them were almost fully destroyed.. and.. cities (er) suffocated car traffic. after that the authorities understood that mass transit the only efficient way transfer people through the city and the.. then mass transit and public transport became necessary part any cities infrastructure. the professor Pennsylvania University sphere urban planning states that mass transit not service but is social benefit. same health care education. (er) Russian case (er) (em).. but we are look the Russian case. there another situation because Soviet systems were formally attached the industry here map the route network the Novokuznetsk tram and you see there are two different tram systems (er) because (er) there were two different plants different parts the city. (em).. after this changes economics (er) the traffic directions changed (er).. but the route networks did not the private companies give the opportunity (eh) and see that they got (er) (em) domination (er) they started dominate the system but still (er) the development had chaotic (er) character and character and.. now systems can not provide (er) good (er) quality level and (er) all the systems are messed and cannot controlled.. now=nowadays due changes regulatory framework (er) authorities start performing transit systems according the western model. there were gross contracts and (er) financial obligation.. (eh) (er).. what I'm going talk (er).. (er) the topic of (ar) particular interests=interest those who use public transport and wants know how the quality service formed. I'm going talk about (eh) copying (er) the Western model. about what the reasons why (er) the Western model can copied Russian efficiently.. (er).. first you start from the the idea service and social benefit (er) while Europe (er) mass transit service the easier social benefit Russia is still service self. is influenced market laws. (eh) i've talked (er) asked several (er) businessmen from sphere (er) mass transit Perm and (er) asked about (er) their principles (er) how they (er) gain money. (er) most them who did not monopolize the market segment (er) say that they need compete (eh) with the other companies and they it (er) rising the quality. their service. and Vladislav Yakushev the head the transport company called Citybus (er) said that they had.. they had (eh) interesting experience early twenty tenths. want they bought some (erm) buses where there climate control systems and air conditioning and them. and the result (er) result people started skip hot stuffy buses when goes outside (er) have trip on.. (er) conditioned (eh) buses and the revenues started rise despite the growing expenses repairing feeling the air conditioning system (er) they had their profit and they still (er) use this air conditioning system every year and have more profit than before.. and (er) Yakushev said (er) despite the gross contracts that (er) the local authorities are going introduce. despite this contract (er) contracts (er) require air conditioning systems every bus think that (er) this (er) the extra costs with the same outcome are excessive.. (er).. (er) the (er) the second point about (er) cultural differences that form different management model. Russian management model requires fees for payment (er).. (er) the reason hidden Russian mentality because Russian people want (er) accomplish their task (er) (er) but not be paid for the things(er) that are (er) aren't (er) don't refer their responsibilities.. and the authorities (er).. (em). reproducing this contract need think they want public transport want vehicles just right down the street to transfer people. (er) Moscow twenty sixteen (er) Moscow gross contract were introduced twenty sixteen and result (er) private companies starting search for weak points contracts simplify their work and. (er) before (er) the buses stopped near metro station and gathering the passengers and now they are just ride around with passengers (er) but they through point and according the contract (er) they what they are required to.. but the system doesn't (eh) complete its essential task.. (er).. finally (er) (er) the gross contracts (er)with financial regulation are introduced (er) the city (er) (em) got gets the control the whole system. but said before (er) most municipal transport companies lost their market share because they did not meet (er) the needs their customers the passengers.. they did not improve their body and (em) didn't make new routes (er) that (er) could (erm) comfortable for their customers. and that line many them closed and now when (er). (er) the same municipal structures. (mm) have their control (er) the who=whole system they are (er) they will not improve the quality the same way and the quality will falling constantly and the results maybe (er) not good (er) authorities some Western scientists say. (er).. conclusion I'm going summarize all the points (er) think that (er) even the Western model efficient West shouldn't copied blindly because (er) there are all the points will not analyzed and adopted the (er) some cal=cultural particularities (er) the.. result may worse than (er) than is predicted. the game will may not worth the candles. now i'm ready answer the questions.
this subject (em) interesting for me. you know. foreigner. and one the things that care about. always noticing around and (er) you know between and noticed this. this case. not about public transit. about logistics. point view that Russia has one the most complicated logistic system the world. because you know the bus the complication moving goods from maybe (er) the goods in places. it=it's really complicated process and now you like made focus something else and it's public transportation. and actually there's something want ask you about (er) have you heard anything about because there something that you did (er) it's different than the others appreciate because you said that now I'm summarize all the (er) all the information about that. spoke about before and this really good mood. this really good advice. really (eh) really appreciate that and you the time that you took (er) (eh) not bad now (er) for such idea. so.. thank you
thank you for your presentation and have question how the efficiency mass transit systems (er) which way can measure this efficiency the future. you have any ideas about
there are many techniques for measuring the efficiency if refer the European studies (er) they say that mass transit cannot (er) (er) can not bring the revenue for the city for business (er) directly (er) but the profit (er) the money. that (er) got (er) the state the city receives taxes (er) when the productivity people who live the city and who use public transport instead (er) walking foot and (er) driving car. when their efficiency grows (er) the productivity growths (er) result have some profit (er) for the whole city for the whole country so. when introduce consistent not directly (er) but.. through some stages (er) gives more (er) money for the whole economy
what methods did use. that the question. what methods did use calculate (er) the measure the efficiency 
(er) the efficiency whole system the efficiency 
mass, mass transit system. maybe you prefered the western studies some researchers there
so the question about the whole system and about the efficiency the
the whole system
so the.. didn't calculate that (er) the efficiency the whole system
yeah. but maybe you know these methods you can mention 
so (er) know people who did this these populations and (eh) they say that about (er) (er) the same about ..
it's really interesting but can you say correctly calculation what
so is that.. the profit from the growing efficiency the exact people who live the city and (er) can (er) save some time travelling the public transport save some money and not have (er) the efficiency (er) mass transit correlates with efficiency the whole economy. the city the region because the more comfortable (er) the more comfortable.. commuting is. the more efficient are the people who commute public transport and work 

