  will be the next speaker. you’re welcomesorry is there any time for  five minutes. seven..ok.good day dear colleagues my name is  and the topic of my work is modeling of consumers actions in the sharing economy. (em) first of all (er) despite the fact that (er) the idea of (er) renting (erm) is not so is no is. no sorry is not new phenomenon (er) the (er) the idea of a renting not from organizations but also from consumers (er) has occured (erm) just recently (er) you can see the p  (erm) of sha=of the sharing economy was Airbnb in eighty oh eight (eh) twenty oh eight (erm) and this firm .these its aim (eh) is to (er).. is to. offer some (er) home some. some houses for (er) travelers and then in eighty ten Uber has come (eh) has  the market and we all (eh) know the purpose of this firm. and nowadays there are lots of organizations which (erm) offer us some rental boots for example (erm) some (eh) clothes (er) cars (erm) and different different (er) goods. (er) so (erm) the objective of my work is determine what characteristics does the concept of sharing economy include. and to identify the conditions under which economic agents become participants of this economy and (erm) how this phenomenon affect the choice of agents and affect the economy as a whole. (erm) first of all (eh) I need (er) to say that (er) this term is not (erm).. identified all ath=authors (er) use different syn=synonymous you can see them on the screen and (eh). I (er) determine my own. determination of sharing economy based on different authors and so (eh) sharing economy is a model of economy. based on the possibility of temporary use of goods without personal  and any consumer who has property and is ready to share it (eh) I can act as a producer here (erm).. so (erm) while I analyse some (em) some (em) theoretical works (erm) I extract (eh) characteristics affecting the economic agents (er) first of all (er) the sharing economy (er) expand the selection of desired product or service which leads. to opportunity (er) to find (eh) a project which will be best meet (erm) the needs of consumer moreover (er) the sharing economy (em).. create additional income for consumers participation as sellers and as consumers. (em) and (er) one of more benefit is that (er) the sharing economy (er) create cost reduction which leads to lower prices and it (eh) shift there a conception to work product of better quality  (er) so now people can (em) consumpt some product better quality but. for (eh) a lower prices. and some characteristics that affect the economy as a whole.. first of all (er) the sharing economy help (eh) help to create new benefits from trade between consumers (erm) (em) then (er) moreover it can (er) (eh) due to sharing economy (erm) the competitiveness of the market  increase (er) and then additional income for an unemployed people or people with lower incomes (erm)... came (erm).. so (er) (mm) middle (er). (eh) middle some of my work (er) is characteristics which has (eh) a different effect on (er) economical agents. and now I want to (er) understand (erm).. for what reason (er) agents (er) start to (er) be participant (er) in sharing economy and for this I analyze theoretical model of Webber and let's (er) let's (eh) let me explain what it is. in this model there are (eh) one product. it is single product market. two economic agents and two roles (erm) consumer consumer and consumer owner. (er) there are an infinite number of steps and agents make (er) can make a choice on every step on these model. (er) the consu=consumer strategies are purchase a good from a retailer from a seller (eh) (er) or not purchase a good or lease a good from an owner. and owner strategies. (er) the=there are two of them. rent a good or use a good by (er) himself or herself. (em) so in  on the screen you can see model of this graph. and there are.. there are lots of steps (erm) on the it and they are cycled here. (er)... (erm) for (eh).. (eh) I find out that there are characteristics of types of economic agents (eh) throughout the whole life cycle and characteristic of a concrete economic agents in a concrete period of time. (er) characteristics of types are theta and V. theta is for  to consume goods and V is a value that (er) the product can bring. and (eh) concrete and charectic of concrete economic agent is S. S is the need of the product. and theta E S (erm). have (em) (er) some (er) links (er) theta sets the change path of S at each step. so theta is like probability for S to be zero or one. to.. this val=value. so (er). (em). (er) the expected consumer's utility. (er) taking into account that the is discount factor (er). is that our (er) that our agents is (er) dico=discounted their (mm) utilities (eh) the expected consumer’s utility in step  can be written as the equation number one. (eh) so there are (em) there is (eh) maximization of three (er) gains from three strategies. (eh) and then (er) if we (er) see (mm). (eh) graph again we can see that consumer (eh) its (er).. letter C has equal strategies on each step so (er) so his or her (eh) utility on each step will be equal. (er) and this is equation number two. (erm) and (er). apply this factor we can rewrite (er) expected consumer utility. in equation number three. (er) but (er) let's put in practice the idea that consumers has. agents has different types and (eh) different characteristics and (em).. let's create market  here. (er) so (em).. theta is a probability for S and we can create from these market  its a matrix of transaction of the need for the project S from state one to zero (er) and vice-versa (erm) will the probabilities. so here (eh) P it's like theta but (er) there are two kind of P now (eh) from zero to one from zero to zero and zero to one from one to zero and one to one. values. and (er) apply this factor we can rewrite (erm) (er) owners utility and then consumers utility (em) this equations you can see (er) on the screen and (mm)... so (eh).. the sense of this equation is that we maximize all (erm) all gains from all strategies in one period of time (em) and you can see that the result for owners utility (er) is (em). depend only on of (eh) depend only on  on probability on price and on its own characteristic. but if we write (eh) the expected utility for the consumer we can see that the result is depend. not only (er) on price probability (er) values (eh) but on (em) expected probability from the next period. and it's a problem (er) which I will (er) solve in my next research (er) due to (er)  equation. so as a result before deciding to enter the sharing economy model the agent observe for expected utilities and (er) solve the maximization problem (erm).. and in conclusion I want to say that (er) there are some limitations of my work. of course and (er) I want to make future search where I determine the expected utility (em) due to Belmont equation and then explore if there are some shareable resources or not. (er) thanks for your attention I'm ready for your questions
 you're welcome. any questions
as I said before  I am going to say  attending some presentations and having fun  so. what i am going to say is.. not I'm good . So.. the presentation is really good. you have an  to give and  you have something to say. about the situation. about  i think that  the beginning  spoke about uber and airnb i know that  socially  but no. there is something what's are  right this is something and there is something is I notice that you (er)  down at your write.. then 
There yesbecause i’m not so (er) ready with my speech.. yes and there are some (er) helpful words
notes>
yes
notes. okay thanks  those notes  really small  okay 
like parts
 and this is something I appreciate  and I like (er) thing that you (er) you said something about the future plans..  like this is going to be my next  more about this . and this is really good. but but if you want to be a good presenter  like it’s not about  it’s about being (eh) challenge something that  i like this kind of thing  so look at this. okay. so i hope that gonna be a good attempt to the next presentation. so okay
thank you
thank you 
your speech was really great and i have a question about  and practical significance of your model. (er) tell us please (er) in which way your model can help top managements in developing any kind of decision
(mhm) (em) let me think.. top management decision (er) so (er) this model can be (mm)...  can be better can (er) and then (er) we (er) so now we have (er) an equation of maximization and if (eh) we can (er) make some (er) our own prices or (er) (em) create our own (erm) consumer so (em) ia as we top management we know our consumers. and create their values and thetas (er) we can understand (em) what (em) how high can be our price. will be the price of our project (erm) in order to (em) make (er) in order to our (er) consumer make the choice to our (er) firm are not to rental firm for example..
okay thank you very much
is it your course paper
yes. course paper
and future research for your (er) this proposal
yes
(mhm)
thank you
well thank you

