 shall move to the next presenter (eh) (eh) will speak the selection physical exercises for future aviation engine designers taking into account their individual abilities 
 can you see the presentation 
 yes 
 yes there something else the screen yeah 
 (eh) my name and student Perm National Research Polytechnic University and today topic the selection physical exercises for future aircraft engine designers depending their personality traits (eh) during the preparation universities should not only provide knowledge students but also prepare specialists (eh) be ready psychologically and emotional and this work describes (eh) the requirements for specialists and their (eh) methods their education means physical culture and one the actual topics the present time the feeling the lack qualified specialists and particular importance (eh) the issue high quality training such specialists (eh) the purpose this work to study the psychological characteristics freshmen this specialty study the influence sports and character and the individual selection sports for the character (eh) the result the training engineers are important for the university and the employer can help them choose the right activities keep the engineers good mood which will improve their performance and efficiency (mm) according professiogram design engineer must have the following qualities (eh) spatial-figurative and logical thinking and hand-eye coordination memory inclination hard work and creative imagination (mm) take into account not only professional requirements but (eh) also individual qualities a survey was conducted with personality questionnaire which allowed to identify personality traits that are predominant among first year students aircraft engine design force the study involved twenty six people seventeen men and nine women and result was revealed that thirty-one per cent students show tendency call themselves the alienation fifty-seven per cent them have not spatial thinking thirty-one per cent are characterized emotional instability and nineteen per cent students are prone dishonesty fifty-four per cent are able show cruelty and skepticism cultural aspects life fifty per cent are distrustful and doubtful showing little concern for other people and thirty-eight per cent them are depressed with the predominance bad mood the analysis the research results made possible come conclusions about the need search for physical culture means level the unfavorable properties necessary the professional sphere ... for the engineers who are uncommunicative prone alienation and coldness recommend doing team sports and outdoor games sport games and being part team and contribute education collectivism and want students ... (eh) because with the teams not the not the individual players even they even they score more goals (eh) for the develop for the development sorry for the development spatial thinking and imagination our opinion emphasis should placed exercises for the education agility (eh) sports games wrestling acrobatics alpine skiing can recommended sports where the situation changing rapidly (eh) and final emotional stability developed the ability control oneself competitions through coherent, strict adherence competition rules allows future engineers overcome their tendency dishonesty ... (eh) ... changing the environment and the types your activity allows you overcome depressive states exercises are one the best antidepressants increase the effect sports is worth alternating them and the activity should not forced order maintain a favourable emotional background that's all thank you for time 
 thank you I would like welcome questions from the audience (eh) ... questions chat ... right (eh) well think the questions I have one for now (eh) again that`s the question with the sample who did you ask (eh) how many students how many sources data did you have and (eh) ... where the results your findings come from 
 (eh) ... questioned group working with group I'm studying with and ... requested twenty-six people seventeen men and nine women and there are four sources information and ... (eh) questionnaire book ... (mm) physical culture ... and professiogram the aircraft engineer and ... (mm) that's all 
 thank you 
 okay thank you and have question and just because you are university student and just because the personality trait topic my research I want ask you (mm) personality questionnaire shows the level personality trait you know personality trait is (mm) basic and very very rigid characteristics and according personality trait theory they don't change during all life person why you think that (mm) physical activity can change 
 first all can't get rid them just can level them and then (mm) don't think can ... (eh) ... can change the ... the person ... (eh) extremely but can help educate ... (mm) more more professional specialists (mm) 
 (mm) this situation can say (mm) not about changing personal trait but can change about (mm) emotional sphere yes can change about (mm) we can say about change mood maybe but not about personality trait thank you 
 thank you for the questions and thank you for keeping detailed answers 
