as you wish
so (erm) ... the aim is a problem of legal nihilism (erm) (erm) the main purpose of the research (erm) is to define the meaning for (erm) the meaning of legal nihilism in general this phenomenon is observed around the world but this study focuses on the legal nihilism in Russia . (erm) against this background the central research question (erm) is there is (erm) is (erm) whether there is a possibility of soul in the problem of nihilism ... (erm) .. first of all it is important (erm) to be clear about (erm) the definition of legal nihilism . (erm) referring to the study of  legal nihilism (erm) is a conscious complete or partial rejection (erm) of the means of legal regulation as an able to serve the interest and objectives of the subjects of law . (erm) we can (erm) also find other definitions (erm) according to the (name of the author) and(name of the author). (erm) legal nigi= nihi= nihilism is (erm) disbelief in the ability to ensure (erm) the implementation of their interests (erm) of society and the individuals by law ... all of this (erm) points to the fact that the legal nihilism (erm) (erm) is the manifestation of disregard for the law . (erm) it is generally agreed today that an extreme form of this phenomenon criminal consciousness (erm) this under certain circumstances a person is likely to consciously commit a crime which possessed to (erm) serious threat (erm) to society . (erm) in contrast to that the mildest form of legal nihilism is the distrust of the law on the part of citizens as well as their legal interest in negative assessment of the law .. (erm) this important to empha= to emph= to emphasize that their concept of legal nihilism became (erm).. became an object (erm).. of researching the fear is the state in law more than a couple of decades ago . (erm) in nineties (erm) in nineties (erm) following the period of modernization in the Russian legislative system . (erm) during that time our state introduced the market economy (erm) and not all people were ready to accept	 it . (erm) this was primary due to the lack of sufficient level of legal culture . (erm) a persistent theme in the sense of law (erm) is how to form a legal state . (erm) for modern Russia is a really difficult purpose because (erm)… a legal (erm) state cannot exist without the single society . (erm) in the state governed by the rule of law the law must be at the highest level must regulate the most important social relations limit lawlessness (erm) protect the human rights (erm) and establish the institutions of law and administration . (erm) according to a study conducted by motion A and B we should point out that the legal nihilism call center question the possibility of implementing (erm) a legal state in Russia several explanations have been offered as there are many reasons for legal nihilism . one significant (erm) reason for legal nihilism is the traditional perception of law by Russian people . in our country the law has always been (erm) perceived as a tool of uniting and for counseling people but not as for a creator of law and (erm) ... notably the (erm) .. and law enforcement notably the main purpose of the law in the ancient Russian state was to achieve social harmony . (erm) we can see then that the phenomenon of the legal nihilism (erm) in Russia has a long history . furthermore (erm) none can deny the fact that Russian intellectuals (erm) (erm) have traditionally considered law as an as an insignificant cultural value . (erm) moreover one one argument cannot be ignored . (erm) the intellectual elite of Russian’s society has always recognize law as the external lifeless norms reading their articles and paragraphs of the writing law or any charters . (erm) it is true that (erm) legal nihilism was presented all the stages of Russian history because there was no opposition to it (erm) during their radical changes in the history of Russia the state structure was changed but (erm) not the legal consciousness of people . (erm) al= all this only goes to show that legal nihilism (erm) manifested itself in pre revolutionary as well as the Soviet period in the history of Russia . (erm) from my point of view (erm) the le= legal nihilism has taken root in the minds of all the strata of Russian society regardless of their social status and material wealth . (erm) I endorse wholeheartedly the opinion of (name of the author) . that contradiction of (erm) the position of legal nihilism in modern Russia lies in the fact (erm) that the Russian (erm) Federation as a state of law the status of which is enshrined in the constitution adopted by the people is a completely new stage of its historical development . (erm) we started all by (erm) we started off by stating that legal nihilism has a negative impact on the function of legal state . (erm) it's it is obvious then that the problem of (erm) this negative phenomenon is (erm) and its implications should be solved . it is now clear that the key to success in this case is to ensure their universal  (erm) law . it is important (erm) it is importance as their main social regulator and the protector of human freedom and rights . (erm) freedom can only exist when all the su= when all subjects of law recognize the scope of what is permitted because the freedom of one person ends where the rights of another begin . moreover (erm) a good solution to this problem is to eliminate (erm) negative stereotypes about the law by demonstrating positive examples (erm) of legal reality . it is necessary to correct the (erm) .. it is necessary to co= to correct (erm) (erm) to form a correct understanding of law in the legal consciousness of people . furthermore (erm) the state should improve the legal literacy of the population (erm) in the order to be able to deal with legal infantilism . (erm) from my point of view it is absolutely crucial that we should provide basic legal education for young people because they are (erm) social group that shape the future of Russian society ... to summarize the idea that the law is a reasonable universal constant of reconciliation tolerance and harmony among people is beginning to dominate in international thinking in modern society . moral norms re= religious (erm) religious canons and many other social values accumulated by society should be brought together to form the correct legal consciousness of Russian citizens . as a result the law will become central (erm) social regulator establishing stability and prosperity (erm) in our state in so= society . that's all 
thank you very much . any questions
 right thank you for your presentation that was really great . I love your slides and you are . well they are wonderful and (erm) all your presentation was really good and the the theme that you discussed with us is interesting . (erm) however I've got some questions . you use talks about legal literacy (erm) in Russia . well actually legal education in Russia is very popular I think we are a country that well every second person in our country is a lawyer or law has a law degree
every second person
well no that’s a joke however usually they're (erm) all (erm) all Russians want to get a law degree or a degree in economics . so however legal nihilism in Russia is well (erm) widely spread . we can see . a history a correlation beca= between getting a law degree and well your (mhm) attitude to law . 
I think (erm) it is doesn't matter because (erm) I'm study at faculty of law (mhm) and I'm noticed (erm) that (erm) are not all my colleges known low as well as the issue no and we're talking about the people who studied law and who (erm) who who who want to be a professional lawyer you know I'm not a when we speak about (erm) regular people (erm) it is (erm) less better situation I don’t know
(mhm) so is there a difference between knowing I mean studying law or something and having a good attitude to law I mean have a faith in Russian law
can you repeat you are talking about (erm) the faith in the law 
no I mean not faith but will a good attitude to law
good attitude to (erm) about law (mhm) I think .. (erm) an attitude to the law (erm) is is really (erm) (erm) in a hard situation and it is always be in our country because notice our mentality (erm) in different situations we should (erm) (erm) choose (erm) (erm) last less (erm) ... so I think it is . it is our mentality
(mhm) thank you 
 thank you any more questions 
May I just ask what you think I’ve been in Russia for a couple of weeks now and I observe that lots of laws which to me in England seemed sort of standard and that everybody abides by for example people don’t speak on the phone in their cars I don’t know if that’s a law in Russia that you’re not allowed to, but what do you think is the most sort of every day example of legal nihilism what people just think no I’m not gonna I’m not going to sort of accept this and I don’t know if there’s one like that comes to mind straight away in the Russian culture 
 an ex= example you wanna an examples of legal nihilism in Russia
sort of the most everyday coming thing
 when you across the road we're going to anywhere we all know that we need if we if we need faster go to anywhere . we just (erm) across in the road . in the it is (erm) a red color on the on on the
that is against the law I’m glad I know that now because I was doing that a lot and getting some funny looks okay that’s good that’s a good example exactly yeah thanks for the great presentation
 may I ask one more question (erm) if you have to make a more profound research in this field . what would you do 
(mhm) do
 what is the next step in your research work . what do you think have you ever thought about?
 maybe I (erm) should (erm) to (erm) re= to research (erm) an attention of people (erm) no I should (erm) talk with a lot of people and (erm) to experience in the real life . what what are . what is their real attention to it . because it is (erm) (erm) is (erm) this research was (erm) based on the (erm) opinions of different (erm) science pe= . sa= scie= scientists . no . but (erm) we should we should . I think if you need to (erm) research this (erm) question you need to talk with a lot of people and (erm) understand their position about it
thank you very much . any questions
