hello everyone my name is  and the topic of my presentation is the reverse vending machine as an ambient advertising vehicle.. today companies (er) have to build the complex of marketing (er) communication vehicles to penetrate the clatter of advertising and promote (er) their product on the market.. the means of communication effect of (er) the success (er) of pro=product recognition.. do you know that (eh) sixty percent of products we are (er) we use a made of produced from polymers. as you can see on the slide (er) the countries that recycle the most of their waste are Switzerland. the Netherlands and Sweden. (er) if Switzerland recycles half of a waste products. Russia on the contrary recycles only six percent. and (er) deposits (er) ninety percent of . depositing means store an initials Solid Waste in special supervise places (er) which was situated from populated areas. (er) depositing should be done in compliance with (er)hygienic and   environmental requirements.. today the priorities are changing and Russian government understands (er) that the agency (em) the agency of recycling. if the government decides to promote the idea of recycling in public. companies can use it as a competitive advantage for advertising their products. let is have a look at how the reverse vending machine in three Russian cities are used for promotion (er) consumer products. (er) for analysis we will use five criteria. criteria (er) you can see them on the slide. (er) the first city (er) for analysis is Moscow (er) on this slide you can see where (er) (em) reverse vending machines are located reverse vending machine is in the greens colours (er) you can read on the screen how to use the machine (er) the instruction is really easy (erm) you should load an empty and clean bottle or a jar into black window over receiving container (er) the machine accept only twenty four (er) twenty five to forty gram bottles and if a bottle (er) weighs more (er) it's returned.. (er) the (em) and as for.. incentives to encourage consumers weight (er) remuneration in the amount of ten to seventy kopecks' and discounts on buying food (er) the second (er) city for analysis is (er) Saint Petersburg. on the slide you can see (er) where (em) reverse vending machines are located (er) and interesting fact about reverse vending machines in Saint Petersburg. (er) if you can use if you use it at the headwaters of baltika  what you can get products with (eh) with companies logo.. (mm)  and (em) national ecological system. a company which introduces (er) vending machines in Saint Petersburg’s market is developing a system of rewards. so customer will be able to get discounts and other incentives in twenty twenty. In Yaroslavl i(er) consumers do not get any reward which decreases the value of reverse vending machine and I should (re) add that (er) reverse vending machines are located only in supermarkets Lenta.. (er) now let has a look at how reverse vending machines are used in other countries.. in Germany and Finland. (er) and (mm) I should add that I think that it would be right to find ways to commercialize reverse vending machines (er) the way is to install them in places where a company can reach their target audience and use them for placing advertising.. advertising can be placed on the part of the surface of a machine or on the led screen (er) using a machine such an ambient advertising vehicle can be an effective cross-promotions for. cross-promotion for a boath for a for a vending (em) for reverse vending machines and for a company (er) which involved in the promotion of this item technology (erm) now I would like to tell some information about reverse vending machines in Germany (er) in Germany they are dark and have no led screen all instructions are written on the side of (er) of the machine for (eh) each delivered (er) container consumer gets a green point. (er) fifty collected points allow receiving a fifty percent  discount on a transport.. another option to use reverse vending machine. machines is to leave bottles next to the special garbage containers for charity..  can take (er)  can take their many return to reverce vending machines to (em) money for food or for public transport ticket… (er) in the Finland reverse vending machines are located in supermarkets. metro stations. parks.   stations and residential areas (er)  vending machines are look (er) really similar to Russian ones from the difference is on the left side of a machine there is a sink where user can wash their container (er) before load it or wash their hands.. next to reverse vending machine there is an automatic (er) collection point for hazardous waste. like . light bulbs. razors and batteries.. (er) as for incentives to encourage consumers there are cash and discounts on buying food.. (er) I'm like in Russia in Finland each bottle has a fixed (er) deposit value so it's quite easy to calculate how much money a consumer will give back… (er) and one more interesting facts about reverse vending machines in Finland. there are many ways to encourage consumers to return use bottles (er) and to reverse vending machines there are special coupons for discount in supermarkets cash and possibility to make donations.. for example in one supermarket (er) various (er) collecting checks to save  archipelago.. (er) the study brings us to the conclusion that the reverse vending machines are not used as an ambient advertising vehicle (er) in the countries we had discussed. (er) if companies want to use them as an advertising vehicle (er) they should place an attractive advertising on bam and it can help to achieve to special goals (er) fast company's can increase the effectiveness (er) of their advertising campaigns and reach their target audience. and second (er) public will (er) develop a habit to return plastic and glass bottles and cans to reverse vending machine which will allow Russia to reduce the amount of deposited solid (erm) initial waste and in this way reverse vending machine can be like a subject for cross-promotion both for a reverse vending machine and for a company.. (er) so thank you for your attention. I’d like to answer (eh) I will be happy to answer your questions
I have a question. do you think that  is a good way to encourage people to recycle because when 
(em) so did i get you right that you mean that (mm).. so could you please (er) could you repeat the question please
 to discount when the discount is over  discount, money, t-shirts with logos 
(erm) according to the results of the sociological survey.. people will not use (er) a reverse vending machines (er) without (mm).. without any motivation yes

(mm)...
maybe do you of other kind of the economy except money
except money. (er) for example maybe some (em) maybe information about how much waste (er) was (er) 
be a member of some environmental 
okay thank you for the presentation. very nice but. as you (er) there is something missing.. there is something missing.. in order to be  but we are human beings and we want  obligation  so I’m going to say about the presentation.  good information but (er) please complete  imagine yourself  imagine yourself like you are in German, you are rich citizen in German and you are in front of government  you know.. and you  it is important for yous society and okay.. there is and I know that you know  about the (er) German society because they don't need money.. by the way.. and they don't need service like discount. actually some sort of commitment andsome  the relationship is another (er) another kind of motivation. relationships between so i (er) i think that next time  your presentation with all these things  

