 our next speaker is  with her presentation the phenomenon of women`s pollical leadership 
 yes . good afternoon everyone 
 good afternoon 
 just a moment . okay . good afternoon . my name is  . and today I'm going to present you the results of my research . on the topic the phenomenon of women's political leadership . my presentation will take about seven minutes and if you have any questions I will be happy to answer you after my presentation .. so . let`s  . it's known (eh) that (eh) an effectively created image is the foundation for success in public and political life . traditional studies (eh) barely consider the issue of gender characteristics and perspectives and claim that the role of a leader is originally intended to a man . for a man . sorry. (eh) consequently . this stereotype of women inappropriateness for the leading role has been firmly rooted in society . I perceive it as (eh) a stereotypical and mistaken notion .. (eh) accordingly my main objective was to identify the criteria for effective image-making . for women in the political sphere . to achieve the goal (eh) I've got through the previous research on this topic . the next I analyze the successful images of female politicians in Russia and the U S A . and the next task the last task was to identify the specific features of the effective image of a female leader .. (eh) the empirical materials of my research is presented by two successful and well-known political figures in Russia and the United States . Irina Hakamada and Kamala Harris … this choice (eh) steamed from the data of their Public Opinion Foundation survey .. and (eh) Irina Hakamada took the third place (eh) as one of the most powerful women (eh) in Russia and also Forbes rankings … (eh) Kamala Harris is also the third powerful women (eh) all over the world .. and also I chose these figures of my personal interest .. (mm) the analysis of women's images was based on three components . personal . social and (eh) public .. in other words were analyzed the appearance and innate qualities . the audiences’ attitude to the politician . and the dominant image in the mass media … so (eh) Irina Hakamada (eh) . fifty per cent of her audience are considered in on Instagram account and the public image of the women is perceived by the audience as unique one based on her personality . inequalities and charisma .. and her image in the media is mostly neutral and more positive than negative … the next (eh) . Kamala Harris . about seventy-five per cent of her audience are considered on the Instagram and Twitter accounts .. her status a strong character and self-confidence and also inner values allow her to form (eh) the image of strong and powerful woman powerful leader .. the image of the woman in mass media is also more positive and neutral than the negative .. (eh) the results of the image analysis are summarized in this big table .. it's worth noting that the image of women is effectively built on their own features and qualities . so . social networks in the modern political communication create a virtual image of political candidates and (eh) the study my study was based on the materials .. of official materials such as (eh) Instagram Facebook Twitter and YouTube . these are social networks . and also official mass media as Russian and foreign . as you can see is R B C . TASS . Forbes . Daily Storm and Time magazine . Cosmopolitan . Meduza and so on … (eh) moreover in my research I conducted an opinion poll among people from eighteen to thirty-five years old .. (eh) and according to the respondents (eh) the main factor of an effective image of female politician are the inner qualities and charisma . also honesty and openness and appearance . and also then self-confidence sorry . without letter F… (eh) and . so . the foundation of the effective leader image (eh) according to my research (eh) is you can see a pyramid where the basis is (eh) femininity . then inner qualities . then psychological aspects and also then . as the least as the last is the appearance .. just so (eh) image based on these qualities will lead women to success in political .. so thank you for your attention . now I'm ready to answer your questions  
 thank you  . I would like to welcome questions from the audience 
 (eh) okay . I have a question . again . (eh) thank you for information . for your research . again . very interesting . I have question (mm) tell me please (mm) tell us please could you predict (mm) women's (mm) women's position in politics in the future . could you predict 
 (eh) . personally I couldn't predict it (eh) I think it depends on (eh) . on women personality and her ... her (eh) readiness to get risks . to go further .. to make something incredible and I (eh) I made the research (eh) about image which help women to get success in politics . it's as an additional component to get this success . it's also a women's success in politics depends on her personality but image is also important .. as I think  
 thank you . and by the way . do you think are will most women in politics in the future or not  
 can you repeat please . sorry 
 could you tell me will the more people in politicts in the future 
 women in politics 
 yeah . women in politics 
 yeah . I think (eh) women will (eh) get more position in politics . and I really want that (eh) . they will (eh) . I really want they do it and I really know that they want to be a strong and powerful politician . also in Russia 
 okay . thank you 
 thank you . other questions 
 (eh) can I ask . thank you .  . can you say what is the main criterion for woman's political image . what is important for it  
 (eh) as I underlined in my pyramid . the foundation of successful image is femininity . it means (eh)… inner inner women qualities and her natural or biological foundation and basis . which she has . and I think it's … yeah . I think it's a foundation to build the strong image . not only appearance is important but also something deeper it's (eh) about femininity and your inner qualities  
 okay . thank you 
 thank you . questions 
 well . thank you for an interesting topic . well . (eh) I will get such a controversial question because a lot of people nowadays still (eh) . talk that there is no place for women in politics . but (eh) women from day to day have new positions in the sphere of our life .. can say why please . approve this situation  
 oh I can't say why . because it's another research . but I think (eh) .. I think it's good why .. why not … when men eat (eh) … when men (eh) have a leading position in politics and other big companies .. (eh) I think it's a stereotypical opinion .. but .. and women just must sit at home and take care about  and do a little not not such such powerful and big and big things as men . but I think women are worth and they should they must to get leading position . they possess and they have everything to make something incredible and (eh) . also .. I want . (eh) I want that I want and I really wish that women .. (eh) get more and more .. leading positions .. I don't I don't think I don't know why but I think .. it's a good (eh) … I think it`s good . yes  
 thank you  . shall we go to our next speaker 
