 Hello my name is  I'm a first year history student at  and the topic of my project is visual sources illustrating the history of Perm in the twentieth century the problem of representation and use in research and I'd like to start with the relevance of the story . so year by year   attract experts attention as a research subject . it can be seen that in Europe and USA . there’s such a strive to generate different opinions about documentary photography and its integration into the world of science . however . for example in Russia it doesn't seem entirely true . photographs are still not serious sources due of the fact that the attribution of sources requires specific skills sometimes there are no professionals with the right education even in museums and galleries . before . photographs continue to be used solely as additions to research rather than items worth studying independently .. perhaps Russian scientists are very conservative at this point . but there’s an ongoing discussion . and who knows what its outcome can be in twenty years .. at the Perm state archive  a vast range of documentary photographs now digitized and publicly available ..  there are also a number of photos on different thematic websites and social networks ... nevertheless it is important to mention that all of this is mostly done for enter= for entertainment purposes since people like  on the subject .. thus there might be an underlying assumption that documentary photographs are more than just fascinating pictures they do have the potential to be real and independent scientific sources .. finally none of the experts we know uses photographs in their research as the main source in order to study the history of Perm ...  let's move on to research sub= research object contains visual illustrations of the city from the state archive collection .. and research subject is the use of documentary photographs depicting the history of Perm in science and popular science projects … The study is aimed at assessing the research potential all documentary photographs are related to the history of Perm ... Research procedure ca= includes three steps  first the first step is providing the overview of visual sources identifying the key theoretical and practical aspects covered by various kinds of research in this field . secondly conducting analysis  of the photographs as well as tracking their history . and finally collecting and classifying the major recent projects where photographs come by use … as for the data sources (ah) of course I use visual sources . 'cause in my case visual sources are various historical photographs from the Perm state archives and other sources some social networks such as Vkontakte for example . speaking about photographs themselves I also study different local  projects where the  remain these projects . (er) it's Perm nineteen seventeen . the data of the  book the public spaces of the city in nineteen fifties sixties . the evolution of Perm . old Perm the path to the metropolis how Perm has been developing … methodology . various methods are applied such as collecting information about visual studies and the history of photography on a global scale and locally . analysis and synthesis of the information gained through the study of literature . then conducting research based on materials from the state and private archives ..  description comparison generalisation and classification of the photographs and the selected projects … speaking about the expected findings firstly I seek to classify the main photography projects on the history of Perm of for actually two reasons The first reason for that is to .. the first reason is just . (mm) although these projects are already available on the Internet sometimes even Perm citizens themselves may not suspect that these projects exist and the other reason for the classification is just simply to prove that (em) all these projects mostly were done for entertainment purposes and they are not serious enough for con= for the world of science .. and the second rea= secondly for expected findings I'd like to estimate the research potential of the photographs on the premise that photography goes much farther than just the popularization of history … it’s in conclusion it's believed that in the coming years the world of documentary photography will only grow and it will attract more attention by being used in extensive research … and finally prospects ..  I think my work might potentially inspire students of the  or even researchers to study (er) photographs of Perm despite . the fact that the expected findings are not expected to be groundbreaking let’s do hope that more people will learn about the projects mentioned above . so that is all I wanted to tell you thank you for listening and don't hesitate to ask any questions . I'll be more than happy to answer . thank you 
thank you . once again I would like to welcome questions from the audience first questions about photography questions about Perm … again once some question comes to your mind please feel free to . yes 
 thank you I want to (er) ask you about (er) perspective . are you going to develop this topic in your future studies .. what  is the perspective of your study of your research 
 (em) actually partly I have said this  speaking about perspectives … but I think .. I mean personally I should say that I'm just a first year history student so of course I can’t . it’s kind of .  not really .. I can’t do . I'm not . I'm not I'm not a real scientist so I can just tell facts and (er) I don't have enough knowledge and enough experience to come up with something big and serious with that . so as for prospects I said that they're not like too groundbreaking and not actually groundbreaking so .. I just wanted to point the problem that photographs are not studied enough and especially in Perm because clearly everyone I hope everyone sees that photographs have have  a lot . a lot of potential for research but nobody can take it and do something serious conduct serious analysis and make it work . so I just wanted to point this problem and that is all I can do for now at least . so thank you  
 okey thank you and I think it is really interesting (er) studies and maybe your project will be interesting for some museum in Perm 
 I hope 
 you can try . okey thank you 
 I have a question if you permit . (er) do you believe that .. photography digitalization and the feeling of nostalgia are actually connected
 yes I think yes
 in what way how
  in my opinion feeling of nostalgia can can be experienced no matter what you can feel nostalgia not just actually holding photographs but looking at something on your computer screen so I'm not sure that .. they they should be separated from each other because . feeling you can feel nostalgia from everything that is around you and not necessarily to just hold photographs and have you just look ..  you can watch film and feel nostalgic about something maybe that you haven't even experienced so same with the photographs you might google some the Perm State archives and open up any picture you want and then you just feel so emotional realizing that all these people actually existed and all these places actually existed so I don’t know nostalgic is everywhere 
 thank you for your answer . (er) again that’s the chance to an= to ask a question to  




 






