 all right, then, next speaker is (eh)  can you share the screen   yeah can you hear me   yes   so hello . my name is  I'm the fifth year student of Perm National Research Polytechnic University . (eh) I'm gonna tell you about abbreviations . as a translation problem . so now I'm gonna share my screen ... can you see that   yes we can   thanks ... so let's start .. (mhm) since ancient times observations have been a convenient tool for avoiding tautology and improving compactness of texts (eh) now when there are many different messengers users tend to reduce words and correspondence and despite the high tension and researches of abbreviation it is still one of the main problem for  translation of text especially when . (eh) translating scientific or technical texts. abbreviation is a compound word . as well as literal reducing of two or more words conditional sharpening of words in letter for example etc  the creating of abbreviation is called abbreviating . it's a special .. way of word formation aimed at sharpening (eh) ... shortening words (eh) especially widespread in English in European languages such as English but in Russian it's less popular . perhaps this is due to a later appearance .. to simplify working with abbreviations and tool a bankroll associate member of .. (eh) eighty eight American Translator Association proposes to divide observations into three groups . borrowed abbreviations (eh) this (eh) this abbreviations are identical in both  the target language and the original language . many languages have borrowing such as DVD SDR OMF TP email and so on . the second group is abbreviations obtained by invertion of the order of initials . some abbreviations (eh) had the same letters in the target language in the original language but not in the same order (eh) this abbreviations like HIV human immunodeficiency virus . and vich virus immunodeficita cheloveka. (eh) the third one is abbreviations derived from the substitution of initials .. in this group abbreviations are spelled completely differently because the equivalence of words produced to initials differ from one language to another for example . UN United Nations and OON orgranizatsiya obyedinyonih natsiy ... in addition  believes that every day we  will face plenty of new abbreviation (eh) abbreviations (eh) it's .. quite easier are just .. (eh) get used to the original one cause (eh) ... (eh) cause Russian speaker will get used to to the original one then used to waiting some translation so the easiest way to translate  is to simply leave them unchanged and that is classified them is borrowed . this approach can lead to cluttering the language . so there are . other approaches.. Russian (eh) linguist  off believes that the main ways of translating abbreviations are transmitting it for observation by an equivalent Russian abbreviations or borrowing of abbreviations saving length and spelling transliteration . (eh) usually we use transliteration when we (eh) translate some abbreviations of military or political blocks . various societies and so on . transcription is used for abbreviated names of companies or (eh) .. companies which don't have correlative form in the target language and the last one is of course creation a new abbreviation when you (eh) . haven't any equivalence in target language . but ... (mhm) it's not enough to know the best techniques to make a competent translation of technical text (eh) . one should not forget about . dictionaries directories glossaries . first the translator should understand what exactly is being translated . so . my work . is based on material of a book . Crash Course lessons learned from accidents involving remotely piloted and autonomous aircraft by Peter W Merlin published by NASA SP in 2015 . the information presented in the book as well as the translation made by me . could be very useful for my department . aircraft engines and for students planing to work in aviation dynamics and aircraft engine buildings .. it's most convenient to present the results of my work in the form of a table which clearly presents the original abbreviations and translations (eh) (eh) the final writing of (eh) .. Russian word and .. of course translation method . so this slide we can see an example of transliteration ... it's necessary cause H A L S O L is the name of certain program it's name of a plane ...  here you can see the examples of the already existing Russian equivalents such as BMDO PRO and P M R F Т Р П ..this slide show us (eh) the examples of creating new abbreviations . the field of unmanned aviation in the United States has been studied much longer than in Russia so . many abbreviations still don't exist in Russian . and we have to create new ones (eh) .. and this one shows how much richer in abbreviations the English language is ... in Russian the abbreviation BPLA is used for both U A V and U A S even when translating R P R V the BPLA is used when the attribute issledovatel'skiye .. this example shows the difference in the approach to creating abbreviations in different languages from my experience of reading technical texts I can say that abbreviations are found in English texts about one and a half or even two times more often in English and abbreviation can be created even if it occurs me one time for text .. all translation methods are given according to population of (eh) so of the following conclusions can be drawn .. the most popular way to translate English abbreviations into Russian is to create new ones that suit to Russians much less experience with automatic aircraft compared to the United States and as a result of the lack of equivalent abbreviations transliteration was used quite often . because there are many names of projects and programs and less often than authors already existing Russian equivalents were used happens due to a bigger prevalence of abbreviations in English .. so despite the use of dictionaries and (eh) . consulting specialists my .. final translation can hardly be called ideal cause of  words . as well as the absence of many equivalents in Russian however . the resulting card index can be very useful for working with English texts in the aviation field both for students and for designers so thank you for your time (eh) glad to answer all your questions.    thank you  that was interesting aspect of your work due to the presentation (eh) as usual . anything participants would like to know about new questions from you   I was just wondering (eh) what inspired you to start this    I'm sorry very poor sound (eh) as I understood what inspired me to do this work   yeah . what inspired you to start studying this issue   (eh) thanks for a question (eh) .. you know after fifth year studying of (eh) .. aircraft engines (eh) I really like this specialty I'm a future engineer and .. when studying I have to face a lot of scientific and technical (eh) texts connected with aviation and ... you know when are you working with unmanned aircraft (eh) ... it's clear that Russia has much less experience in this and if you want to if you want to build something unmanned (eh) . some unmanned aircraft in Russia you don't have to .. to invite to a bicycle you have to use the theory made by Americans or some ... some people who who has studied it much longer and you should understand all the theory you should . you should know what the abbreviation is   any other questions   yes I have a question . so in one of the slides of your presentation you used (eh) pie chart with (em) . various methods of translating an abbreviation and there are percentages I was just wondering what (eh) the sorts of text or sources from which these percentages are drawn   (eh) you know .. the main source for my work was (eh) some theoretical basis taken from a book of Russian linguist  this book called osobennosti perevoda abbreviatur truly interesting and useful and . all the rules I applied were according to this book   yeah I would probably add to that question (eh) it wasn't very clear (eh) where the translation appeared from so do we have an officially published translation of the book by  sorry or you translated it yourself for example   you know you have five methods of abbreviation translation . so . one of them only one of them is using already existing Russian equivalents . so .. (eh) the four other .. (eh) methods were .. just to my freedom but it's of course it's not a freedom cause you have some (eh) some rules for example if you have a name of political or military plaque you should use transliteration if you have the name of company should use transcription . (eh) if there is no any equivalence of course you have to use the creation new abbreviation and of course . (eh) that was me who created new abbreviation and I understand they are not ideal   yes what I mean is coming back to those percentages so these are the percentages of the methods that you used while translating   yes of course   so that's the results of your practical translation   I'm sorry that wasn't clear   yeah yeah yeah  what was the question about . (mhm) (eh) (eh) if to go in the mechanism of that. just to take one of many examples that you show are why (eh) how can on the basis of what can you decide that H A L S O L should be translated as халсол   you know according to  according to  you should use (eh) transliteration (eh) when you're translating some names of different military and (eh) political blocs some military programs and this is (eh) this is this is like a secret program in the seventies   all right so that's that's the name for the program so that's why we apply this method   yes yes   so then (em) why do you call your presentation abbreviations as a problem   well because yeah   we have the kind of words we have the methods for that and methods are attached to a particular kind of abbreviation.. so what is the problem   you know it's a really big problem (eh) this . this presentation is limited I have limited time and I don't have time to present all the examples. you know as I have said about about half of the abbreviations were created by me and so so many abbreviations are don't have equivalents in Russian they cannot be translated by transliteration or transcription you should create the meaning of them by yourself . for example I have . had MARS system this information like  that there was difficult to translate in Russian because this is a camera system you have so many meanings of recovery mid-air what does it mean mid-air and you should correctly . translate all the words and only then calculate (eh) in what order should you use transliteration and should you use other methods and one of them you should to .. only after that you have final abbreviation   thank you    yeah I mean I had more or less the same question and maybe will just . repeat it slightly differently so (em)  is there anything that makes translation of abbreviations a problem that is different from the problem of translation in general   and translating terms of translating (eh) the vocabulary which doesn't have an equivalent in another language   so what is so special about translating abbreviations if you see it as a distinct problem   I think that the main problem is the big prevalence of abbreviation in English text because in Russian we have (erm) we have . poor amount of abbreviations compared to English technical text .it's about two times more often and they can create an abbreviation even if it occurs only one time for text and you have to find the explanation somewhere .. it's really difficult it was difficult for me it was maybe it was my problem   thank you   thank you very much (eh) and we are then ready to . give the world to the next speaker  
