 we'll start with a report by (er) .  representing cultural memory in contemporary english model   so it was once said that it was so much for memory kids that it is a little bit left but how . indeed memory is a topic that integrates disparate elements like no other . however memories not count by any single discipline instead sociality philosophy history archaeology and religious studies are all involved in exploring the connection between culture and memory and today I want to present to you my research.. work and the aim of this work is to reveal the cultural background in the first world where no  make an emphasis on the characters their participation in the world their emotions sufferings and traumas left after the World War I . and in literature this group would put forward several tasks . the first step is to reveal the main approaches to memory studies . and then the next step is to read the book and analyze it in terms of cultural memory and the last but the most crucial step is to reveal the cultural memory context in this book .. the object and the subject are depicted in this slide .. methodology of this work is based on the theories by different researchers so this are the Osnos who does crack cultural memory as a concept which comprises the body of cultural memory (er) which comprises the body of social rituals (mm) different other things . specific to society in each book this is also the theory by Maurice Kovács who was the first one to give the phenomenon of cultural memory in name and proposed concept which concepts which comprise which (mm) recognized culturally collective nature of cultural memory . this is also the point of view given by Pierre Neyron . the shift (er) the focus of his attention shifts to the so-called sites of memory which can be geographical locations monuments buildings and what not . and the most but not the least very taken under analysis is by Oster Berl who would process cultural memory as an umbrella term under which there is a number of cultural social biological and cognitive phenomena and unlike all others  describes she sets literature alongside with other civil force she gives a semiotic model of cultural of cultural memory and now I want to tell you about this in a detail . so the first key element in this model is the dimension and there are referred different dimensions the first one . as represented by different objects from the real life these can be photographs symbols and other different objects so social dimension can be exposed through this mnemonic practices and when it carries a memory which can be people or social institutions and the mental dimension can be exposed introduced it can be introduced through the remembered activity and by the symbolic mediation the next key element in this model is the level this is clear that there is no collective memory of that individual actualization and Oster Berl distinguishes two different levels the first one is concerned with biological memory of an individual whereas the second one refers to the simbol  the media the institutions and the practices by which social groups construct their shared post and this is clear that here memories used metaphorically because societies did not remember literally of course . and the last  to the  is about the most . it is also clear that there are different amounts of remembering the identical post events and in the book Oster Berl gives an example of remembering the word . so here you can see different modes. and of course and of course this list can be continued and now I want to show you the most vivid examples from the book Birdsong so here  the material and social damage . what do I mean . I mean models and this are the objects given . and of course they remind us about soldier . fighting in the world . as for the social dimension here we can see the talk of Irene Eric and  . and definitely they are the actors in this and this dialogue . and therefore. I think this is definitely the social damage . the next example is about the mental dimension and here we can see also the remember activity of Elizabeth and. here . this is an example of her symbolic mediation the next example given is about the levels of cultural memory so here we see that both levels can not be separate because in theory they are separate but in the real life they cannot be because .you know while Roitman water to Elizabeth to jeanius and Elizabet is remembering her own past and she's also constantly addressing their child for life with her sister and therefore we can see both the collective memory collective memory and individual memory.. here you see an example of different modes of go of cultural memory which we have found out in our book and of course as I said before this list can be continued .. in this article closures that have come to so as you have seen the present borders with the past constantly because every time encountering something from the present it pushes us to think about the . the past .and cultural memory as you have seen unites not only people of different generations but also of different states and therefore we can talk about the common shared past of the humanity and cultural memory also it is indispensable without all three dimensions. so as you have understood we are close to reconnect with our past and this is the idea that's supposed to  folks keen before writing the book Birdsong thank you for listening 
 ok .. do you mind if we . ask some questions    of course you can   I am curious about couple of things (er) but (er) the participants (er) the guests are also welcomed to ask questions .. so how should define culture of memory   I myself went tailoring . got into the   yeah well . for me as somebody who is not working with the boundaries of this tradition that's . not very familiar term . right (er). so if you could just . in a couple of words explain what this colocation means cultural memory right (er) so hopefully    as I've said before . Oster Berl difference cultural memory as an umbrella term under which there is number cultural social biological and social phenomenф and unlike all other she's talking about thуыу different dimensions and (mm).. so I definitely agree with her because you know we cannot imagine cultural memory as something . as something (mm)... as something .. I don't know what to say so this is a phenomenon which have different which has different peculiarities so both the biological social and all others . and this is the phenomenon which cannot be (er). looked at from one point of view   right . well how do you put this thing a cultural memory in a relationship to something that's more familiar to us let's say the regular private memory that I have my memory of events of my life . in what way is it parallel to the cultural memory because of this this idea of cultural memories this phenomenon фcross dimension it's the rather hard for me to grasp that they want to find his (er) footing now how is it related to just memory   you know cultural memory I think this is like a heritage of the generation or any state and I can tell you about this in detail to sort of put into some theories for example you we're talking about .. here on the right . he is trying he is talking about cultural memories heritage of one state of Francefor example if we are talking about  books for example cultural memory is something as the heritage of the generation in particular (mm).. and .. I think that cultural memory is something that unites both the collected and individual memory   alright (er) thank you  
 if you have any questions here ask them again (er) I'm interested in your conclusive thesis about past bordering on the present (er) do you have at hand any textual example from this thesis .can you exemplify that with something that you have on the slides ... or maybe you can give an example just out of the novel   here you see    this one yeah   for example he  the  and this are the objects for example from from the present and we see it but of course it connects us with the past with previous  with previous period of time of the  for example and that's why I think that it constantly borders with with the past and present   thank you great I= I got it and (er) one more thing when we're speaking about three  that dimensions of cultural memory for this text can we identify a most predominant one   (mm)... I think we can talk about material dimension because now the book tells us about the Diary of Soldier and the main character finds it and is trying to find out about the word because   of it   (mhm) so (er) what what what what what you mean is that for example occurrences of cultural memory in the novel are mostly given as material objects    you're right   as (er) feelings of a lot's of person mental or some social (er) institutions organizations or  yeah    I think that yep because preliminary we can see the objects first of all . which can remind us about it or   (uhu) wouldn't mean that materiality is again the main theme or I don't know idea of the whole novel as such .. so is is the novel mostly about material objects   it is   It is    it is   and why I mean can you  prove it   it's because you know if ..   because of it the novels about love and family relations and broken hearts (er). these are not material things   yep you're right but you know before writing the book it was the main idea Sebstian Fox to tell about the word itself and therefore thinking brooding over how to how to figure out how to do he the main idea was to put different objects on the first World War into the book to show them and to make them amenity   it’s not well I'm sorry I'm not familiar with the novel (er) could you give us some idea of of the plot of the novel do the advance in the novel take place at the time of the First World War or does the novel maybe depict characters who are engaged in remembering First World War wh= wha= what is it    so the novel is divided into some parts and then some  the main characters of course are fighting in the war and  you see that war under how to say under under … this is the war that tunnelers it can be and next in the next part of novel we can say that another main character finds diary of soldier and she's trying to find out about it so both the actions of the war and the depiction of cultural memory is the present in it   right so (em) are there any is there a part of the novel that deals with the contemporary time   it does    ok right and those characters who find the diary they are characters who supposed to be living in the present time   yeah   all right yeah so (er) when these characters read the novel ..    the diary   oh I’m sorry  the diary it's not really about re= remembering something because it's not part of their experience it's about them  maybe (er) some of the    would it still classify as memory because those people were living in the present maybe they can't possibly have memory of the first world war   now I guess you haven't got it because they constant touch it by for example by (mm) their family by the objects that they have in the trunks or something like that   so yeah in terms of cultural memory they do share it   they do share it   and that problem is a question about the difference between individual culture   the culture the cultural  or cultural  would be   thank you  



