hello everybody (er) it's pleasure to welcome you today. (er) let me introduce myself .. I'm  a first-year student of economics in . and today I will be talking about the effectiveness of using of (er)[brief] optic fiber in the public fire safety systems .. (er) from the beginning (er) I’d like to point the fact that there are a lot that there is a lot of literature about the application of optic fiber sensors .. but there are no researches about the use of optic fiber in the public fire safety system .. I conducted a study by analyzing (er) the possibilities of using of this technology .. at factories  and a setting the feasibility of introducing .. in the fire safety system in pu= in public places .. I have divided my presentation in three fa= into three parts .. first I will describe the alternative of fire safety systems and explain why using the optic fiber is more efficient (er) compared to the (er) existing fire systems .. second . I will talk about the way of (er) implementation of the proposed idea .. third I will present the results I have received and will draw some conclusions .. (er) to start with . I will talk about the fire safety syste= .. the (er) two fire safety systems .. the first one is the most common signalization which is installed in all public places (er) the principle is simple .. open fire causes smoke (er) smoke disturb a laser inside of (er) this device and it sets off an alarm .. there are main weaknesses of such a technology .. one major drawback is (er) it only detects fire but does not help to prevent the emergency .. moreover it often triggers false alarm for example (er) deodorant may disturb a laser .. last but not least . these system (er) these systems are economically inefficient compared to the alternative that I propose (er) now let me describe you how optic fiber sensor works .. heating leads to the optic fiber deformation .. (er) the specializer detects and collects information about the deformation of the fiber and send this information to the computer with a special app .. (er) the computer analyzes and creates a graph .. (er) the fiber might be deformed by any kind of physical pressure (er) so the equipment should be (er) configured to the to something specific . for example (er) to find  temperature (er) .. now (er) let me show you some numbers .. (er) this table shows that optic fiber safety system requires two elements instead of 10 required by the ordinary system .. another point is that optic fiber system is fifty per cent cheaper .. (er) in this part of my presentation I will focus on the practical implication of my study .. I propose to a  crowded places places with optic fiber sensors . for constantly temperature monitoring (er) it is necessary to stretch the fiber . near the large number of wiring . and powerful electrical appliances .. information about the temperature changes (er) (er) will be set= sent to the specially equipped computer on their security post or somewhere else (er) like (er) it is illustrated on this slide .. let us simulate the situation .. in the first case we look at the school with ordinary detect= (er) detectors .. wiring starts heating and causes a fire . signalization detects a smoke and sets off an alarm . students and teaching staff evacuate the building . breathe gases and (er) school suffers from the fire .. in the second case we use optic fiber fire= fire safety system (er) the school and the situation are the same .. so . wiring starts heating (er) optic fiber safety system detects (er) this (er) temperature and sets off al ararm an alarm.. somebody de-energises school and prevent a fire .. (er) these observations allow me to come to the conclusion that (er) modern ways of fire safety system have a list of weaknesses which may be avoided (er) by using optic fiber as a source of fire safety .. optic fiber sensors cannot only detect but also prevent fires .. prevention of emergency situation will save money and priceless human lives .. in future investigation= (er) investigations it might be possible to expand the . research (er) to .. find other technologies (er) and the better solution to the current problem .. and now I will be happy to answer all your questions … if you may have
 sorry … okay .. thank you very much indeed for your report  please .. do you have any questions to our first reporter … any questions from the audience . please … okay …  I have a question . if you don't mind .. can you hear me 
 yes of course 
 okey you have mentioned this in your report but (er) could you once again highlight the economic implications of replacing ordinary fire safety systems with fiber optic systems .. you did mention they were more economical .  
 sorry sorry (er) . I have some problems (er) please can you (er) 
 repeat my question okey can you hear me now 
 yes I can 
 that’s a . okey once again . you did mention this in your report but (em) could you please highlight on again the economic implications of replacing ordinary fire safety systems with fiber optic systems (em) you did say they were more economical but I assume as they are more technically advanced . they could be more expensive as well . is it econo (technical breakdown)  
 if you can (er) okay (er) this technology is more expensive of course .. because it is modern and requires a lot of work (er) especially scientific work but this system consists only from (er) two elements (er) so we spent (er) a big amount of money only for the sensor but we do not need for example fire detectors .. we don't need to ... crash walls to (er) equi= equip the place (er) with this system .. so all these points make this system more econo= economically efficient 
 thank you .. so .. we . as we may assume long-term savings … great .. thank you for your answer please  dear audience . any more questions to our reporter . please 
 just a moment . I . I turn off my mobile . it was a very nice presentation .. thank you … well . economic effects and safety . but what I'm interested in is the fact that (er) if you want to change (er) your fire (er) alarm system for example .. you have some more costs (er) connected to the refurbishment (er) and (er) in order to . change the system .. and this is what you do not take into account .. does that mean that your recommended approach (er) is applicable only to the new buildings
 of course (er) ... (er) this idea may face some problems with (er) for example .. law (er) because (er) somebody doesn't know about this and (er) there were no tests (er) in this sphere .. but (er).. we can use (er) this system together with (er) the ordinary system .. to feel more secured and to prevent more situation .. and of course for new buildings (er) it is much easier to (er) keep (er) to keep a to keep new buildings with such technology .. but old buildings (er) … in old buildings it may be used too .. for example together with (er) the ordinary system
will it be more or less expensive 
 (er) if we speak about (er) new buildings . of course it will be less expensive .. because we won’t  need to buy the old way of fire safety system … (er) … the old safety system (er) but for the old buildings maybe it will (er) mean (er) extra money .. we will need extra money to equip (er) the public place with something new .. something extra … but it will save money in future .. if the emergency situation will happen… it will be prevented ...  not detected .. but prevented .. so . it will save much more money 
 yeah okey thank you very much 
