good afternoon dear colleagues. Let me start my presentation by asking you a simple question. do you remember the last time when you focused on your own emotions when you try to understand what you exactly feeling now and why... yes or no.. maybe no or maybe yes
maybe yes
yes
i think it's the most effectively something essential  i think that my opinion
okay but I don’t but after my talk I hope the situation will change. competitions, stress, furious items  are inevitable in our life today.. inside circumstances it is absolutely necessary to be flexible and have  skills. emotional intelligence being one of them.. (er)... (em).. what is emotional intelligence. is it an essential skill or a useless concept in business.. in today's presentation I will try to answer these questions.. let's start by defining the key concepts.. the skills and competencies that any working person possesses are divided into two categories.. hard and soft skills.. hard skills are professional skills related to see activity performed or a particular profession.. soft skills are flexible skills that allow you to be successful. regardless of their specifics of activity and direction.. one important soft skill is emotional intelligence it is a general assessment of people's abilities in control their emotions.. feels understand other people's emotions.. emotional intelligence concludes for components. understanding. awareness of your own emotions and needs. control over your experiences and behaviour.. would perception of people.. give understanding of.. people's emotions and managing relations. reactions and feelings of other individuals.. as for me I have only recently learned about this skill (er) I didn't know what this skill is about and what is need for.. and I decided to find out if my growth mates know anything about this skill. so I created a Google survey.. (eh) it was conducted a  of first year business management students of the Higher School of Economics Perm.. the survey includes the following questions. you can see the questions on the slide... twenty people took part in the survey. the results turned out to be the following.. most people heard about.. heard something about emotional intelligence.. half of students know what emotional intelligence is.. most people have not tried to develop emotional intelligence and forty percent have.. and the.. and most popular belief that emotional intelligence is important skill in business.. (er) this brings me to the next point of my presentation.. why should we develop this skill.. at first it is necessary for the personal development. when to manage our mood we become more effective. we solve task faster. with less effort and take a pleasure.. (er) secondly it is necessary for the team in  person works.. (er) if we understand and influence there (er) emotional well-being of others we can give them confidence and inspired in your achievements. and finally it is necessary for the whole company when you emotional intelligence in shorts successful operations of the company.. emotional intelligence insures.. (er).. successful operations of the company. in international companies such as Unilever. P&G. this skill  is a priority.. that is why this soft skill is definitely  developing.. especially this soft skill (er) should be developed by managers (er) by managers.. (er) emotional intelligence increase the efficiency of employees.. but here comes the next question of my presentation.. how can this skill be developed.. (er) if you want to develop your emotional intelligence you. you it's better to get tested and pay attention to the results. the most popular and credible tests are  tests.. you can only develop is this skill without spending money on purchase and psychologist. I can. I can shared you tips.. try to regularly voice your emotions to yourself. it will improve their perception and  them in other people.. pay attention to the behaviour of other people. ask yourself. in what mood this person is.. avoid  emotions. you can only boost your emotional intelligence by understanding that every emotion matters. and be sure to use feedback.. communicate with colleagues relatives and friends.. today you can find also many courses trainings articles books and as a useful materials. useful materials that will help you to develop this skill.. some useful books are presented on the slide.. in conclusion. many young people believe that only a red diploma and developed hard skills will lead you to a successful career. but this is not the case.. emotional intelligence is an important skill in business (erm) that needs to be known about it and that should and can be developed. thank you for your attention if you have some questions I'm ready to answer them

as i said earlier the skill includes four components. yes. control of other people and personal control
why are you shy I feel so  all the time you are like with  you look nice you look nice and you  you are speaking now about emotionally intelligence  have you use it
this skill
aha. in your presentation
now no.. I have. if you heard earlier I have only recently learned about the skill and my emotional intelligence level is no high and I deal improve it
I expect that
thank you
 

