good afternoon my greetings to you ladies and gentlemen and I want first of all  to introduce myself I am a student of the group  of HSE university and today I want to present you my research work concerning the role of the press and its influence on the population during on the basis of Russian and British newspapers over the world for one year . so you know today it is not surprise that propaganda is one of the  implements in the operation against a belligerent enemy . therefore it is interesting enough to analyze to what extent it played the major role in the government’s puzzling process especially during the military conflicts . so thus the aim of our research work and topic of our research work is the reflection of the battle of the Somme in original Russian and British newspapers . the aim of this research work is the analysis of the reflection of this event in original Russian and British newspapers in comparison with the reality from the witness’s point of view . so in order to achieve this goal we put forward several tasks . first of all we made a comparative analysis of the British printed materials reflecting the beginning of the battle . we tro= we tried to do the same  with the Russian printed materials then we compared them and revealed the common and different features . and all in all we try to analyze what it was all made for . to be more precise we need to distinguish that the study of this issue within the battle of the Somme will be able to understand how much significant and urgent it was for two different countries of the allies . who of these countries counterparts payed more attention to such powerful weapon as the periodical press and the like . by the same talking according to the scientists exactly this battle is considered to be the key point that turned the war back into the opposite direction and which finally compelled the Germans to cave in . therefore in different resources it can also be named sometimes as the mighty grave of the German field army . so in order to analyze this situation visually first of all we need to take a glance at the fragments which made the witnesses . the first one you can see on the slide was made by the general serge  . he was one of the fighters during the World War I . so here there is the continuation . here we can see that the first of July was serious enough for the British . the tragedy of the day is underlined . by the same (er) also we can see some words about the small aims gained by the British . the next note is was made by the German historian  . he also points out that the battle was out of control since the very beginning and therefore it did not go very well at all . so in accordance with this to announce we can point out that the battle was did not go very well at all . still here we can look take a glance how the ge= how the British press covered it ... this is the news taken from The Daily Express .. here we can see  the read of the success of the British soldiers ... also the many ways concern the captives made by the British . the next news is taken from the newspaper Daily Chronicle . generally the depiction of the events is the same the same positive tone of the happiness . and the last British newspaper taken under analysis is  Guardian . here we can also read about the advance of the British soldiers . ok all in all we can point out ... that the main impact in these newspapers as on the great results and success of the Allied soldiers by the ri= by the way there is the information about the great amount of captures in the meantime witnesses did not say about them at all . and the delay of the information which you could notice lasted for two or three days which can be considered to be the news tendence . so the next local newspaper taken under analysis is Russian namely  . (er) this exactly this newspaper was chosen since itwas one of the most leading and influential influential newspapers at that time on Perm gubernia . at first its edition with mass it la= it was released thrice a week . later it was shortened and then in nineteen nineteen it was closed . so needless to say that exactly this newspaper is chosen since it can be considered equal to the British ones aforementioned . the first note is of the twenty-nineth of June . unfortunately any evidence on the first of July are not conserved . still here we can also .read. about the heralds of the battle ... the next note is of the fifth of July . here we can also read about the energy strength of the Russian soldiers ... and the last note is on the sixth of July . here are other remarks about the advance of the Allied soldiers and undoubtedly it has a positive tone .. so it is clear that nothing was completely safe from the factual error and people didn't have much choice in terms of how to get the news . but still here we can notice that the newspaper fragments are distorted from the official reports in the by the witnesses . besides there are many words concerning the success of the Allied soldiers but in the meantime with the sense maintains that it did not go very well at all . and the delay of the information which you could notice also was one of the tendencies and the particulars of the battle are not given in the news they are just omitted and perhaps deliberately . so according to this we have come to the conclusion . to some conclusions . so the delay of information (er) which you noticed was based on the idea of changing the content by correcting exaggerating humiliating this and only then printing in the in the pr= in the news the information represented has mainly the positive tone for instance it can be explained by the idea to raise the spirits of the country both in the rear and on the front . and the last but not the least conclusion is that the periodical press and the press itself worked consciously as the means of decieving people . in order for the sake of the main privilege class to continue the work . so by analyzing all this we can undoubtedly point out that the press was for the state . it ruled the country people's mind and therefore now there is no wonder why the British Prime Minister David Lloyd George once said to the editor of Manchester Gardens Court in 1917 . if the people knew it may be truth that the world would be stopped tomorrow . but of course they don't know and can’t know . so on all in all we have gained to the aim of our research work . thank you for attention . I am willing to answer your questions ... 
 do you agree with David Lloyd George . do you think that if the Russian blandly entry they had known to what extent their soldiers needed their support . and do you think if they know how bad it was going they would have supported them even more perhaps or lost all hope . do you think it was productive that the newspapers completely lined the idea that it’s all going great to kind of or do you think the opposite would have happened if they’d known then they might have got behind a bit more support if they’d known how bad it was going
 so you know the press has ruled our minds since the times immemorial . and this is why I think of course . we all just feel . that the press is lying . so I don't believe that if the p= if the country if the people knew the truth the war would be stopped but with all with what what sacrifices would be would be there we really don't know . so I definitely agree with them him . 
 thank you very much 
