 good afternoon everyone can you hear me all ...   yes we can (mhm)   so I think that just now we should be five in our (er) section session . in our session well so  l am I right with the stress ..   …   Not yet     sorry sorry for confusion with stress . okay (eh) first of all I want you to introduce our jury today (em) the jury (em) appeared with  . well .. and (eh)  it's me so we are going to move through your presentations we have only four participants today one participant is away because of illness and I want (em) you to remind . about the requirements to your time limits . don’t forget that you should speak no more than (eh) seven minutes and then we have five minutes for our discussion . well all participants are welcome with their questions after presentations and maybe if you want you may write the questions into the chat during the presentation maybe it’s more comfortable for you (eh) just for the format of our session any questions just now before beginning … no questions . okay (em) I think we shall begin (em) with  ..  .. will you begin ...   yes just a second ... can you see my presentation …   Yes we can . we believe .  (em) so hello dear colleagues my name is  and I’m ready to present you my research the international legal status of information warfare and information weapons . the relevance of (erm) the topic is due to the development of . the information technology and . the information communications and other IT devices as these resources are ccomparable . to cause damage (erm) comparable to the consequences of (em) the open military conflict (erm) so the concept of information warfare began to develop after the cold war . and became (eh) became . wildly used (em) after the operation Desert Storm (erm) that placed in Iraq nineteen ninety one but the key question here is what is information warfare (em) unfortunately nowadays there is only one legal definition that is current (eh) and it is not international (erm) definition . it is a national defi (em) definition (eh) it is placed in the United States and (eh) it is defined that informational warfare actions taken to achieve (eh) information superiority in supporting the national military strategy by . influencing (em) the enemy’s information and information systems (em) apart from .  there is one more definition (eh) it is (eh) in Convention on Ensuring (eh) International Information Security (eh) two thousand eleven . but (eh) the status of this convention is not current because the United Nation hasn’t decides(eh) anything about (em) to apply or not to apply (eh) this convention . and information warfare there is a confrontation between two or more states (eh) in the information space in order to damage information system (eh) also to damage political financial and public systems also . the society systems so as we can see the range of actions (eh) connected with the informational warfare according to this (eh) conventions is extremely wide (eh) and we can (eh) count almost all (eh) actions (eh) in the informational space (eh) as . the informational warfare . in my opinion it is wrong and it is also wrong to interpret informational warfare as an independent institute is international (eh) law but the category of (eh) information weapon should be defined . informational weapon is also (eh) a space . a legal space in international law so it doesn’t exist in (erm) as a definition as a new institute of international law (eh) but in my opinion (eh) we need to have it (erm) and  now I will explain to you why . (eh) according to the article one of the UN General Assembly Resolution (em) aggression is defined as the use of armed force by a state against (eh) the territory (eh) territorial independency (erm) and so on (eh) as we can see (eh) we cannot (eh) count that (eh) informational weapon here (eh) is an aggression because (eh) the mandatory element here is .(eh) armed force . but informational weapon (eh) is not associated with the armed force (eh) although according to article four of the same (eh) resolution (eh) it provides us that the above list of acts is not exhaustive and the Security Council (eh) may determine that other acts constitute aggression under the provisions of the Charter . and also the paragraph one of article five (erm) says that no considerations of any nature be they political economic military or . otherwise may justify aggression. so according to the (eh) article five and four we can have (eh) a new category of weapon in international law . (erm) but there are (mm) some legal problems to create a new category of the weapon for example (erm) according. to the (eh) Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions (eh) article thirty six (eh) proposing (eh) creating new types of weapon (eh) doesn’t have some (eh) criteria to (eh) creating new type of weapon but (eh) according to the section one part three of this convention (eh) viruses logic bombs and other means of special software (eh)  (em) specified as (eh) forbidden for the warfare so that’s why (eh) it means that it is also about the (mm) informational weapon so the mean is like this (eh) (eh) as for the new category I proposed to have the elements and the features of the informational (eh) weapon and the first one is (eh) secrecy secrecy as an element (eh) is manifested (eh) as a special (erm) hiding subject and the . hiding (eh) actions of the subject so it’s very difficult to (eh) calculate and find out the actions of the subject of the (mm) informational weapon . the second one is extent so it is connected with the  spread in a large territory and also the consequences of the using weapon and the last one is universality it’s all it is the ability to choose the subject or the methods and also there are some features of the . weapon . the first one (eh) is . an intention it can be direct or indirect and the second one is (eh) negative consequences of (eh) using this weapon (erm) according (mm) to what I said (em) (eh) we can say that (eh) it is (eh) a definition of an informational weapon so informational weapon (eh) ways and means that are aimed at interfering in the informational system and violating (eh) information security of the state (eh) the society and the . human rights of (eh) concrete state (eh) so it is also needed to say that there are two types of informational warfare (eh) the first one is (eh) active . informational warfare and (eh) the second one is psychological informational warfare active informational warfare is connected with the defeatss of (eh) informational system of the military actions . and also (eh) with the aim (eh) with the aim of (eh) enemy object (eh) of the state (eh) and on the slide you can see some examples of the active informational warfares psychological informational warfare connected with the impact on the people’s  psyche (eh) it has false character and (eh) the progress of this (erm) weapon (eh) destabilised (eh) a society of (eh) one or two or more states (eh) it can be visual sound holographic ethical manipulation and so on . so now I want you to (mm) have some examples of these (em) weapons the first one is the example of (mm) an active informational weapon (eh) it’s the virus I love you it’s placed in (eh) two thousand and (eh) the virus has attacked (eh) more than two thousand US users computers and it has enormous harm to and damage to the personal computers of state department for example two Ford company computers and Pentagon personal computers and the total damage of (em) this virus was ten billion dollars (em) the second example (eh) the second example of (eh) the psychological (mm) weapon is (eh) the situation connected with COVID-19 pandemic (em) the situation (eh) was connected with the spreading (eh) face .. sorry fake news about the COVID-19 (eh) pandemic in april (eh) may two thousand twenty the main false idea was connected with the (em) with .the . that . virus was a biological weapon created by the Chinese authorities and created artificially to regulate the world . pupi population initially this news (mm) was published in The Washington Times (eh) the US media (eh) but it spread so rapidly and literally one mig later the whole world (erm) was covered by these news (eh) it also (mm) took place in Russia (eh) and (eh) after that we had (eh) a new (mm) article (eh) in the court of administrati (eh) administrative offenses connected with (eh) (mm) spreading fake news about the COVID-19 (eh) such information falls under the category of psychological information weapon (eh) because many people suffered (eh) as a result of its dissemination (eh) so (eh) the percentage of . nervous diseases increased . panic and the harassment of China began (erm). the second example of a psychological weapon (eh) we can say that it’s image of (eh) Jesus Christ it was (eh) a holographic picture in the sky (eh) and occurred in February nineteen ninety three after the end of (eh) the war in . persian territory and during the sandstorm in . the area of Mogadishu (eh) the image of Jesus Christ appeared in the sky and there was (eh). there was some soldiers and (eh) they said it was not just a familiar face but was the image of Jesus Christ as it is usually given in religious publications paintings and sculptures around the world so the image (eh) was kept in the sky for five minutes and caused (eh) a deep shock among all the soldiers . the image actually was . a holographic (em) picture and aimed (eh) to from heaven to call on the (eh) fellow believers to stop resistance (erm) ..so the .. of course it should be a liability for the countries that use (eh) (mmm) the informational weapon and (eh) the liability for the countries (eh) lie under the chapter one article two part four of the UN Charter not to use (eh) or threaten (eh) and forbidden  (eh) territorial integrity or political independence of any State and it (eh) it is also in article two of the (eh) U N (eh) General Assembly so (eh) using the (em) informational weapon in my opinion is an internationally illegal act (em) and so (eh) at the end (eh) I can say that (mm) (eh) informational weapon causes . many . problems and we need to solve this problems of course the first (eh) way to solve (eh) the problem connected with the regulating (eh) the new (eh) the new category is legal regulation of course . to . prevent these (em) damages (eh) actions we need to have legal regulation of the informational weapon (eh) the next way to. solve (eh) the the problem is to establish (eh) an international ingovernmental (eh) ingovernmental organisation (eh) specializing (eh) in (eh) control of (eh) non (eh) proliferation of information weapons for example as an organisation of controlling (eh) of (eh) spreading nuclear nuclear weapon (eh) so this (eh) organisation should be based on the (eh) agreement of non (eh) proliferation of information weapons and it will (eh) ensure a legal ban of using informational systems for military purposes . and (eh) the key point of this agreement and this organisation is not to create and . impart information weapons or technology of their cration finally I should say that information weapon must be controlled because (eh) false information can cause  damage to the States and to the people that live there that’s it thank you for your attention now I’m ready to answer at your questions.   well dear participants you are welcome with your questions . do you have any ... well . then (eh) I will ask you some questions . so the first is what are the future prospects of your work . and especially what are the future practical prospects of your work ..   (eh) so actually (eh) I would like to (eh) .have my legal definition of the informational weapon so that it should be (eh) enforced (eh) because.. (eh) I really realise (eh) that the problems that (eh) I mentioned in my research are really actual nowadays and the status of information and the damages of false information spreading (eh) by the countries is very stricky and (eh) problem (em) space in international law and there is not no category to (mm) to regulate it and (eh) my definition and (eh) my (mm) ways to pro to solve this problem I think will help to (mm) protect (eh) human rights from the fake news from (eh) the false information   (mm) well thank you    I also have a question (eh) thank you for your presentation (erm) could you (eh) so we all no that the international law is based on the principle of equality of the states so (eh) what do you think . in what ways (eh) and why the states can be encouraged to operate with the development of (eh) international international legal status of (eh) the information weapon ..   (eh) so . actually .. I think (eh)  some countries (eh)  will not (eh) will not have (eh)  will not want (eh) to (mm) participa (eh) participate in this organisation maybe because it’s (eh) maybe (eh) (eh) how to say (eh) because it is not profitable for them (eh) to be participants of this organisation and to (eh) to have disagreement (eh) in this country (eh) but . we shouldn’t forget about the principles (eh)  of the human rights (eh) in (eh) international law because I (eh) made an accent in my research on (eh) human rights because (eh) fake news and this information (eh) really causes  damages connected with the human rights of (eh) (eh) the people that live (eh) in states that’s why I hope that (eh) many progressive countries (eh) will .. consider (eh) not .. their purposes their political purposes of (eh) participating or not participating in this (eh) organisation but (eh) will look at the side of the human rights ... I hope ...   well thank you. any other questions
