well let's imagine that are all wearing pink glasses... okay.. good afternoon dear colleagues. I'm happy that have opportunity share the results my research with you.. today will briefly cover the following questions.. study little bit more about fast-growing companies.. according the theory. the outstanding growth depends two types factors. internal and external. what huge surprise for managers right. but what do not understand exactly the nature the how they really influence the outstanding growth... several.. research papers (em) researches (eh) have divided all the factors into three types and nowadays the one innovation related factors. and it's likely be in the future. understand theoretical background very important for the understanding the model that have created. (eh) now. would like tell you (em) thoughts how the approach have be because has be well. used think growing companies the main contributors (er) creation the workplaces and. overwhelming majority scholars has keeps these approach. but is dated. have heard the amazing presentation about the artificial intelligence the (er) matters employment not suitable for the today situation economy companies.. what more important that practicals significant only (er) question because the models are not applicable (er) terms practice because they are overgeneralised and strictly limited like are studying the high tech companies operating market offering (er) financial. (eh) services. is too narrow can't work with that. now let's move to the research design. have followed the four-step procedure. can desk study using secondary data. and for the research have use the russian fast-growing companies. but later would say would tell you how will change this approach.. and why we need build all these models trying create something because the plethora models have already been done and developed. and there are too major evidences for that.. first all it's from theory. the David the father fast-growing companies told they are extremely unstable their growth can predicted. and can't constant.. from the practice all the annual rankings are renewed the seventy percent every year. what surprising unbelievably number... now let's turn the most part the research.the model have have created internal. external and strategic now the slide presented the best. the dream all managements the company. company can operate the market attractively using this (eh) using these strategic resources. internal factors and external opportunities. now there are example the passenger. the company which grows just because the market grows. the markets recession maturity the company will stop growth and maybe even disappear... now the are type conflict company and complete market provides not lot the opportunities develop. And competitive advantage not stable and strong that the company order sha share order save and protect its (er) competitive position the market. has do lot.. well there was one more profile that can cannot that. and why the approach has be rethought (er) due this fact (er) is due this fact also. think that this either fast-growing company its unique and strange hat are not able understand right now. okay. let's some the model and how work with it. a manager need take question which have my back (er) back slides you are interested. there just it. and (eh and assess the company. then collo these curves all three dimensions. or she build portrait company and identify the point possible growth. Everything left just take action.. have mentioned that need develop the. (er) studies. and see avenues. theoretical have mentioned that need rethink and update the approach. make urgent. make (er) competitive the modern conditions. and for the practical need push the boundaries the existing models try understand how make them not overgeneralized not too narrow but applicable for the practical purposes. the fast-growing companies are extremely valuable asset all the economies. hence making them grow not only fast but sustainable will allow our country (er) and will influence positively countries' international position. thank you
 outstanding. outstanding really. you covered all the points that.. suppose the presentation. (er). have question. (er) asking about voice the movement very good and the presentation without many like (eh) many words and many things and huge content everything should like your presentation
thank you
so (em) question (eh) don't shy when ask you about these.. okay. how many times have you thought about like scenarios how many times have you dream about doing this presentation 
no did not did for family members but it's part my term paper and have the experience presenting this. but feedback (er) year ago and some part had be exluded from the presentation just focus the main aspects. and. have lot had train lot because when was the second-year student (eh) did the terrible presentation and (er) lector (er) she trained lot. had outstanding course. public speaking and attended so from the person whom talk like that thanks for question. thank you for your question

