 hello. (er) good afternoon. ladies and gentlemens. I would like to present you my research .. I've got no presentation . so I think . (er) on the other hand it will be good enough for us . because we will have not any technical problems with (er) our presentations . so . let me just speak from my heart ... okay . my name is  and I am a student of the Orenburg State University the Faculty of the Foreign  Philology and .. I would like to present you my research on the topic . (er) the . Lewis as an Educational Novel .. (er) this novel by British author Clive Staples Lewis  has become .. one of the most favorite books for both children and adults (er) around the world since its release in nineteen fifty.. (er)  the plot combines many motives from Christian of course ... to .. Mythological .. the hypothesis of our studies is .. of our study . sorry . is that this works belong to the gender of educational novel and the aim of the research is to analyze canonical pictures (er) in the novel . and to do this we will of course outline the specificity of the genres and examine its characteristic features to identify them in the work and the study .. (er) according to the Bakhtin .. (er) the novel is the only emerging .. and not yet established genre . moreover .. at this moment we are all witnessing its formation because the basic criteria of the genre we study ..  are still not fixed having all sorts of variation and (er) in their manifestations . sorry . thus . all varieties of the novel . are in continuous formation .. the educational novel itself has a rather deep roots .. since it goes back to the most ancient initiation stories with a cultural social and . historical background . and also forms the basis of epics and fairy tales of nations from all over the world .. also Bakhtin is his scientific study . comes to the conclusion that many scholars erroneously classify works as belonging to the shader .. basing only on the compositional features .. significantly narrowing the criterion of entrance .. (er) to novels into this category.. (er) some of them on the contrary .. significantly expanded arguing that . any works in which the moment of the development and formation of a hero is traced . can be considered as educational novel .. and .. for Bakhtin . it becomes obvious . that . first of all . all the work should highlight the moment of essential formatio of man .. determining that the change of a hero acquires platforming significance ... (em) the 20th century .. is characterized by global transformation in the literature .. (er) that emerged against the backdrop of social cultural and geopolitical events in the world .. (er) genres also undergo changes and educational novel is for the authors in an attempt to understand the place . of a man . in the new changing world . (er) the theme of the inner struggle . the psychological and social formation of a hero . comes to the forefront .. also . Bakhtin offers a classification of an educational novels .. distinguishing above five types . and for our study the most important is the last one . the main difference of which is the formation of the hero . not connected with a passage of time .. but on the contrary against the background of static . and already made world .. (er) in the novel The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe . the main characters face difficulties . that they have to overcome .. (er) these events have . significant impact on their characters and create their personalities ..  accidentally find themselves in a magical world called Narnia .. and the country is in despair . with power concentrated in the hands of  . the white witch . because of whom it on a winter rains .. the legend says that two sons of Adam and two daughters of Eve . will defeat the ..  and bring spring back to the inhabitants of Nania .. (er) the heroes are forced by circumstance .. so the slap of the tongue . just such a long day .. circumstances . sure to set the challenge . and the part of the family . of course . rails to solve the problem but Edmond . because of his pride and vanity in some way .. turns out to be a traitor and helps Chaddies . who flatters the boy to bring . his sister and brother to her of course .. because .. just to kill them . (er) son of Adam .. (em) I should so much like to see your brother ..  and your two sisters . will you bring them to me .. I'll try . say Edmond . still looking at the empty box .. it was the empty box from the rahatlukun that she gave him ... in the textbook (er) devoted to the study of the educational novel in the literary process of the 19th century .  identifies a number of  features of the classic educational novels.. (er) autobiography . a similar origin story . learning . wandering . in a conflict .. and some other .. and the novel itself .. (er) of course we can say it's autobiographical .. (er) as Clive Staples Lewis was drafted into the British Army as a junior officer at the age of nineteen .. and .. as a result of the bombing . in London . the children find themselves sent far away from the war .. from the warm .. to the home of a lonely professor that is a family friend .. Edmond, Peter and Lucy . also Susan . (er) were left on their own .. and the youngest ones . are unwilling to submit to the eldest . and eventually an intractable family conflict develops that cannot be resolved without adult help . and they have none. (er) the heroes go through training . when Aslan . the true King of Nania who brings freedom and spring to the country tells Peter the rules of battle . for further participation . in the war .. (er) he gave Peter plenty of advice .. on how to .. conduct facilities .. and in addition also . our heroes go through trials . such first of all. Edmunds betrayal . but where is the  .. he has tried to betray them and join the Wild Witch  . Peter as a result of all events has to learn .. (er) how to .. wield weapons . and even to kill . which suddenly affects the inner world of the hero of the novel .. it seems to the boys that everything around him was only blood and wolf hair .. and a moment later . the monster lay dead in his feet ... of course . Lucy and Susan also faced the horrors of war . and they have to took part in it . and for sake of freeing people of Nania from the White Witch rule .. as a result of our study . we found . that Clive Staples Lewis novel The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe has the following features of an educational novel .. (er) such as . firstly . the narrative is devoted to the hero . and host changing have a platforming significant .. significance . sorry . secondly . the novel is partly autobiographal .. autobiographical .. this English language .. thirdly . the lack of spiritual clothing with the parents . and teaching the characters the art of war . besides an internal conflict is experienced by Edmont . who betrays the family . but eventually comes to the second conclusion . reuniting with the family .. thus .. the hypothesis of the study is proved . and the work . we have analyzed .. can be truly recognized as an educational novel . thank you for your attention . I am just ready to listen .. to your question .. and to answer it 
 Right after that . I got a question . just a comment . I think .. in these forums . (em) when you have the opportunity to put up like maybe a visual or physical presentation it just makes the research . flow a little better and easier to follow . it's very apparent . that your English was fantastic. I was able to understand // (em) your speech . but I think . in the future when you have the opportunity  absolutely should jump on it 
 sure . of course ... thank you .. for the advice  
 Thanks  . I have a couple of things to . clarify for myself . when you say educational novel . do you mean . what Bakhtin calls buildings  
 sure . of course . it comes to be . like German history and the literature and so on 
 then I understand you right . (em) can you give me an example of a . kind of .. (er) earlier maybe prototypical novel .. of this genre . but that which is at the same time closest .. to Lewis's novel ... so kind of a parallel   
   yes I can .. and so I just talking about.. like in the very beginning . that some of the .. explorer just made ..(er)  a little bit extended or a narrowing of these .. (er) novels .. yes . something connected with the of course  and .. (er) ..  I just can`t  remember clearly the name . but of course it's just there are several educational novels . that we can say it . at the  
  yes . what I mean is that   that comes first when you're talking about the genre .. but . (er) that seems to be rather far away from Lewis .. in terms of the development of the plot and the image of the central character ... (er) that's what I was asking this question . so what is closest in this genre 
 as I said . at the very beginning . the genre of novels . like Bakhtin said . that the genre is now .. just developing and it's always in its . like.  moving and development just constant . so . I think . we can .. (em) find some .. examples like of the criterion in such novel .. and of course something that is connectly close to the children .. and so on . it's just we may call it educational novel . I think . and I found some criterion that is just .. appropriate for such a work . such a novel 
 okay . and just one more question for me .. when you.  make a conclusion about proving your hypothesis .. (er) .. and you say that this novel . belongs to the genre of educational novel . do you insist on the presence of a single genre in that . do you deny the multigenre nature of this novel 
 of course . it is multi general because first of all . it is like fantasy .. (er) of course . and yes . it is like a multi general novel because .. we can see .. a lot of different .. like to say .. items . that is author put in his novel . in his work . and we can also say that it is of course fantasy . and educational novel 
  then do you claim that educational component . educational genre component . is the dominant one here ... for example . for me . that almost the novel of an allegory christian allegory  why educational genre comes to the forefront 
 I'm not sure that is like .. (er) the main general that makes all of the novel . I think . first of all it is of course fantasy . because it was made for children . for their .. (er) lie .. advertisements and so on .. (er) .. somehow for them it to be interesting . and . of course . we can say .. that .. (em) .. to the forefront we can .. (er) just place the fantasy of course .. and maybe on the second or on the third place .. it is an educational novel 
 so then that will probably be my piece of advice for you in terms of prospects of your work .. yeah . to build not kind of a .. component .. of this model but to build an .. overall model .. genre of this book .. which is much more complicated 
 okay . thank you I will
yeah  . I had a ... quick question . so . as a researcher or as a reader .. what do you gain by classifying this novel as an educational novel 
 of course .. (er) I want to think that it is educational novel because it's just for children . and ...(er) I think first of all .. (er) we all know that Clive Staples Lewis is .. truly Christianin .. and here he put some .. educational context in it .. for children just to make maybe to say the Bible more clear for children while they read because they've got some ... like ..items . and of course .. sorry . I forgot the word ... (mmm) ... some persons from the Bible 
 all right
 any follow up questions 
 not from me 
 okay . that was our last presentation in this session  
