 today is  . and she is going to talk about the negative impact of social networks on teenagers
…

 good morning my name is  and I want to tell about negative impact of social networks on teenagers. . in our days social networks play huge role in our live . everyday (eh) we communicate (eh) using social networks (eh) arrange meetings and search for information and always often replaces (eh) real communication with virtual communication .. it is simply impossible to imagine the    generation without social networks in our time . Instagram Telegram VK (eh) completely replaced (eh) live communication .. social networks have a huge impact on teenagers (eh) mostly negative . (eh) this is because some teenagers are explosive to dependence on social networks they are completely immersed in social networks and forget about self-development .  social network displace walks sports and real communication from their lives .. I wondered that negative impact of social networks have on teenagers . and found out (eh) if it is possible for modern teenagers (eh) to live without social networks ... despite the  asides for communication on the Internet causes evaporable damage to real life . they take up a lot of available time that could be spent on study or physical development .. (er) in addition to the enormous (eh) time costs they prevent adequate thinking influencing and distorting the sense of perception of the world . as the result of the influencing the teenager occurs a lot of psychological problems becoming more complex and enormous .. (er) the result of the influencing of social networks can be different problem .  (erm) . for the negative impact of teenagers (er) who arrange of    problems (er) are fallen … for this work I conducted a study the purpose of the study was to identify (erm) .. the negative impact of social networks on teenagers . (eh) . (eh) fifty people age from twelve to sixteen participated in the survey . (er) I offered to pass the questionnaire as honestly . as possible and answer the questions … (er) we can say that social networks  continuous harm with the right discipline approach to this miracle of internet technology you can get some benefit and make your life easier … (eh) the study confirmed and showed .. that the internet and the long staying social networks negatively affect the physical and moral condition of (eh) teenager and virtual communication becomes the predominant in the live almost every teenager . thank you for your attention 
 thank you for the presentation any questions 
 yes I have
 yes
 thank you  and my question is (eh) so .. do you use social networks and what is your personal way of limiting time spending on it 
 (eh) .. I (erm) .. I using social networks (eh) .. and (erm) …
 how much time do you spend on it daily 
 .. (erm) .. 
 one hour two hours 
 (eh) (erm) … one hours (erm)  (erm) yes 
  one hour per day 
 not too much .. okay . so you have very strong will   unlike the most of teenagers great any other questions … no .. alright . so thank you very much for the presentation 
  yes 
