 good afternoon dear participants and participants of the conference . my name is  . Now I'm a student of the  . today I would like to introduce you to our research in chemistry on the topic determination of mass concentration of fluids in drinking water by potentiometric method . nowadays modern society is increasingly beginning to take care of their health with a healthy lifestyle and eat healthy food . one of the most useful and necessary elements for the normal function of the human body is  .  is characterized by a deficiency of  . that is why most residents have dental diseases .  . and we can notice a large number of dental clinics in our city . to prevent the development of these diseases is it is necessary to compensate the lack of curing with medication or the help of a properly constructed diet .  are present in the in com- in common mineral water . (uh) in quite a significant amount as well . the countries where the contents of these elements is insufficient .  of drinking water . so most of the daily dose can be obtained with water. um but does bottled water containing through an iron .is it possible to replace bottled water with water from natural sources? is the concentration of fluorine in the natural water Karelia insufficient for the human body . (um) a hypothesis has been put forward that there are practically no fluorines in water from natural sources . there are fluorine (um) irons are presented in bottled water in sufficient quantity . therefore (um) the aim of the research is determining determining and comparing the concentration of fluorine irons in water samples from natural sources and bottled water . the objectives of our research you can see on the screen (um) the targets of the research conducted . excuse me . potential metric method for water samples from natural what it what is as well as samples of tap and bottled water . (uh) the content of fluorine in water can be determined by several methods . in our research potential method of determination of fluorine was employed . (uh) on the screen you can see the chemical division that we used in our research . (uh) this (um) it was universal  (um) and selective electrode , exhilarate electrodes , magnetic (uh) magnetic stir (uh) thermometer and as well as various chemical glassware such as volumetric flasks , beakers and  . (uh) this and so the potentiometric methods is to measure the difference (uh) in the electronic force of two electrons . one them is measuring and the other one is in the both of these electrodes should be placed in the test solution . (uh) we determine the concentration of  in six samples of bottled water and  samples of water from natural sources in  . then we (um) construct the deliberation grab and compile the table . we set up an equation with the help of which we determine the value of P F from the measured values of the potential . next on the basis of P F two milligrams per liter conversion table represented the result of all our measurements in a summary table . (uh) relying on the acquired information we can conclude that in the bottle water  the actual amount fluorine corresponds to that indicated on the label in the water  the actual amount of fluorine irons is several times smaller than the values on the label . as for the water  there is no indication of the content of fluorine on the label although it is presented in water . regarding the water from natural sources . (um)  a certain situation of your involved in the top and natural water in the settlement of  which may be the result of the operation of the  production factory whose byproducts are fluorines (uh) reach into the environment. however . the content in the water is the limits of  assumptions from water . the contents of fluorine in bottled water  is allowable . (um) and its values are within  regulations and standards . our hypo- our hypothesis (uh) was partitioned confirmed in the water from natural sources and tap water from  practically no fluorine irons were detected . however fluorine was found in water samples from  and in bottled water . based (um) based on the research it can be added that it is almost impossible to compensate for the lack of fluorines in the diet with the help of only tap or bottled water . (uh) it is not worth it that in order to maintain the normal function of the body fluorine intake should not exceed four million per day . we could recommend consuming more food containing a sufficient amount of fluorine in addition to water in order to provide the necessary daily intake of fluorine . there's a bibliography that we used in our research . thanks for your attention
I have a question  (uh) so (uh) as far as I realized in some bottled water . the concentration and fluorides was higher than in natural resources . does it mean that the water was used from other resources or the or it was enriched somehow with fluorides?so (uh) . thank you for the question . the concentration of fluorides were higher in the bottled water because (uh) they so because they  factory . so that in (uh) natural from in the water from natural sources (uh) . there is lack of (uh) because (uh) Karelia  . is characterized by (uh) . by lack of many of (uh) . clinical elements . and that's why (uh) in all natural sources from our region . there is no fluorides
(um) or maybe there are some additives that we can add to watch ourselves . just I don't know like a powder I added to my water and to become (uh) to make it have a good concentration of fluorides . or is it is it possible to kind of to to to buy such additives or are they available
great idea that I didn't hear about that . and (uh) I think that it will be a great solution for this problem . for regions there is (uh) a lack of fluorine and they may and people may stay healthy . I think it will be a great solution if this powder as you said will existe
yeah . okay . yes thank you . well you've included some national wide brands which will be sold in our region to what I mean. For example as far as I know the  . right well have you thought of collaboration with other regions just to identify because you've got already some results and some findings through analyzing this concentration in these bottled water . but for example just to compare your region and (uh) well the water from your region to the natural water from another region from for example from our Perm region of Perm Krai . well what about thinking about collaboration with other Russian maybe schools universities just to expand on your database
 first I have thought about cooperation with other regions earlier because (uh) as I know (uh) . the water that also (uh) . also we buy in our regions may differs from the water of these brands . so the same brands from the other region because (uh) they so they . (uh) and because if they will do it in only one region and transport it will be very difficult . so I think it will be a great plan for future to make a cooperation with other regions and compare results of experience

