  the next speaker today is  who is going to talk about drug addiction among young people .. so very important topic 
…
 hello everyone .. my name is  . (eh) narcotic substance in the  of  environment are the most actual problem in our time .. the problem of youth drug addiction remains the most relevant topic in Russia .. because young people .. (eh) don’t know how to say stop … problems of drug addiction among young people should not be kept silent . hidden and pretend that nothing is happening in this country . it is easier to prevent the appearance of drug dependent youth .. (er) than . to deal with the tragic consequence of this appearance .. what is addiction in medicine it is disease characterized by a pathological craving for drugs that leads to severe violence of the body’s functions in psychology it is the need to use any drug or chemical substances to avoid the discomfort that occurs when you stop using them ... every year about forty thousand people die in Russia due to the use of narcotic substances . every one every year about .. eighty thousand of new drug addicts are identified in the country .. the total number of drug users is among young people aged nineteen to .. thirty-nine years . more than two hundred thousand of them are teenagers . think about how many of young people in the country are drug addicts . people can’t cope with themselves and call such a global problem . just look at the statistic . it shows that teenagers from fifteen thirteen years old who tries the drug is about seventy percent it says that teenagers can’t have enough entertainment … most analyzed addicts are more or less informed about the inevitable severe consequences but why it doesn`t stop them .. drug is a substance that asks for more supplements . the person gets high from it . but when the narcotic substance is not enough in human body it begins to break .. tragical comes and inevitable physical crucial and social degradation .. the following categories of the people are the risk of potential of drug abuse .. children from dysfunctional families or families with drug addicts and children from  families that their own devices .. who can`t afford anything and so on ... in fact everyone can become a drug addict no matter what  no matter how long enforcement agencies  .. the main reason why teenagers use drugs is a lack of love and crucial misunderstanding among the family .. if this moment is missed then it may happen that  someone else .. it’s a common mistake .. to believe .. than only financially insecure and unstable young people can become drug addicts ... drug prevention . should become an integral part of education . let’s consider possible methods of prevention . formation of young people’s abilities and skills can become active prevention and protection from environment in social activities ..  samples and taking drugs . different organizations and structures that care about preventing drug . active education and work among young people .    against the spread and use drugs . administrative and legislative measures ... the task of modern society is to protect young people from the use of drugs .  education among addicts and build a future for our country .. thank you for attention 
 thank you for the presentation questions please 
…
  (er) thank you ..  thank you for your presentation (er) let me start from (er) from far (er) . (er) point . (er) have you (er) watched (er) Guy Richi`s film Gentlemen 
 no 
 no (eh) well so (mm) let me explain to clarify my (er) my questions .. (er) that may be deal with you that (er) there are .. (mm) safe drugs and unsafe drugs .. safe drugs for instance cannabis . (er) and unsafe drugs or (er) .. (erm) drugs that leads to death . (er) for example ketamine . (er) what do you think about this (er) idea .. (er) are there (er) safe drugs
 I don’t know  I think  I think that people should use drugs but not so many just for medicine maybe 
  well yeah you can use cannabis (er) but it won`t kill you .. it just (eh) relax you .. (er) but it won’t kill you . the main idea (er) the main idea is that it may kill you . so it`s safe
   so there are safe drugs
 yeah
 okay thank you for your opinion 
there is a couple opinions nowadays that the reason of each addiction is a lack of love .. do you agree with this or no 
 yes
 why 
 argue with us please it`s a 
 just agree
just agree…
 just agree
 
 okay any other questions .. (erm) so thank you very much for the presentation 

