 well   ah yes ok 
  yes I’m here 
 (uhu)  well . evaluating of the effectiveness of various antidotes for . cauterizing . substances . poisoning . well you are welcome .. (uhu) 
 do you hear me well 
 yeah it’s ok but can you start the presentation you can click slideshow . well slideshow and try to change your slides if it’s not ok you can stop and then once again . to stop the presentation ok 
 ok . hello my name is   I’m a student of form ten b of gymnasium seventeen the title of our research paper is evaluating of the effectiveness of various antidotes for cauterizing substances poisoning the research was carried out at the Department of Pharmacology of Petrozavodsk State University (em) cauterizing substances are any substances that can cause chemical burns these include acids alcalides and . oxidisers . fatal cases of poisoning with cauterizing fluids in Russia account for three dot five percent of all poisonings . most of these poisonings are accidental and occur at home often due to improper storage of the substance substances and question we believe that .. 
  sorry . very sorry for interrupting are you changing the slides of presentation 
 yes you didn’t see 
 well . it . I don’t know why but it’s a kind of specific feature of zoom well stop the presentation then end  and click on the presentation yeah and now  once again . well demonstration click on your presentation . now . (em) 
 you see 
 yeah well than it’s (em) you can click on the next slide for example .. well ok  let it be like this (uhu) sorry for interrupting well some problem with changing slides in zoom we have had recently (uhu) continue  you are welcome 
 (em) we believe that antidotes for cauterizing fluids can be found in everyday life and be effective in providing first aid at the prehospital stage basing on this assumption we aim the research at evaluating the effectiveness of various antidotes for poisoning with cauterizing substances and to develop an information booklet on the first aid case of poisoning the research objectives are presented on the slide . the subject of study was household . (em) antidotes and their effect against cauterizing substances . (em) the first substance we investigated was potassium permanganate according to literature the antidotes of potassium permanganate are ascorbic acid and the mixture of . hydrogen peroxide with acetic acid . as a  antodote we tested ascorbic acid powder the powder was dissolved in water and added to a solution of potassium permanganate in equivalent amounts complete decolorization of the solution was not seen however when excess ascorbic acid was added complete naturalization of potassium permanganate occured .  next we tested ascorbic . acid in tablets .. (em) .. it isn’t comfortable for me to change the slides like this (em)  да что ж такое  
 well you shouldn’t well it’s ok (uhu)  
 the required number of tablets was calculated they were crushed and dissolved in water the resulting solution was added to the solution of potassium permanganate complete decolorization of the solution was seen as the next antidote we took a vitamin complex in the form of .  tablets containing vitamin C the tablet was dissolved in water and equivalent amount of potassium permanganate was added the purple color disappeared . it is known that ascorbic acid (em) is found in citrus fruits so we tested orange and lemon juice . sorry it isn’t the right slide (em) as an antidote juice was squeezed out of the fruit and one milliliter of five percent solution of potassium permanganate was added a partial disappearance of purple color was seen . the last antidote we tested was a mixture of hydrogen peroxide and a table . vinegar when an equivalent amount of potassium permanganate was added to the mixture the purple color disappeared however this mixture has an unpleasant pungent of smell of vinegar and the reaction was accompanied by the formation of foam therefore this antidote is not recomend for use of young children it shouldn’t be taken orally . the next substance studied was iodine according to literature the iodine are sodium thiosulfate and starch when tested sodium thiosulfate (em) in the form of injections solution accompanied disappearance a color of the iodine solution was seen . the next . we examined the starch solution starch was diluted in water and added to the iodine solution the disappearance of brown color and appearance of dark blue color was seen after diluting the solution it became clear that the reaction had gone to completion the next cauterizing agent to examine was acetic acid according to literature the antidotes are sodium bicarbonate antacids and milk (em) first of all we . prepared a soda solution and added an equivalent amount of acidic essence to it . the reaction took place very quickly with abandoned formation of gas and foam this confirms the fact that soda cannot be taken orally in case of acid poisoning as this can lead to stretch the stomach we tested the results in solution for acidity with a licmus  test which revealed a natural  medium  the soda solution can be used to treat the skin and oral cavity next we examined antacid using the drug  as an example (em) half a bottle of almagel was added to one milliliter of acetic  essence and the reaction of the medium was checked the acetic medium hasn’t changed the same result we was obtained after adding the second half of the gel  the last antidote was milk . one hundred milliliters of milk was added to one milliliter of acetic essence the reaction of the medium remained acidic  after adding two hundred .. milliliters of milk the reaction of the medium also remained quite acidic based on the results of the work the following conclusions can be drawn . literature on the given topic has been studied potential household antidotes for poisoning with potassium permanganate iodine acetic acid have been tested it has been shown that in case of poisoning with potassium permanganate ascorbic acid preparations from a home first aid kit powder tablets vitamin complex citrus fruit juice can be used as a first aid for oral cavity treatment and ingestion (em) a mixture of hydrogen peroxide with vinegar can be used only for the treatment of the oral cavity in adults in case of iodine poisoning . a starch solution can be used  for oral cavity treatment and ingestion . (um) food containing hybrohiden  hydrates  can given in case of poisoning with acetic acid the soda solution can be used to treat the skin and oral cavity you cannot take soda inside almogel and milk are not very effective but they are safe and can be used before the an ambulance arrives to partially neutralize the acid . also we made a booklet . is on Russian Russian language . for Russian people . here it is . on the slide . also (um) list of literature thank you for your attention 
 (uhu) well thank you  a very complex topic for me well questions you are welcome .. (uhu) well you’ve got a question  (uhu)   
 thank you  it was very informative I have two questions (em) maybe some of provocative and  but I would like to have your opinion on that so you testing the frequency  (em) with the visual inpecion of the color the solution so my question is if I add an antidote and coloration disappears does that mean that the solution is now completely safe to drink . that’s my first question and the second question what will be more dangerous to have an acidic (em) poisoning and wait for a doctor or to take in soda but . to have a side effect of stomach stretch so in case I don’t have anything else and just soda in my house so what would be better to wait for a doctor or to take soda 
 ok . if you I will begin on your second question if you ate acid . acidic . if you have only soda . and you ate . a poisoning fluid you should wait a doctor because soda you cannot use inside at all so it is the only way you can help yourself is to wait a doctor . (em) and the first question I forgot what what is   
 so when if the coloration disappears in your solution does it mean that it’s now safe to drink it 
 no . I you shouldn’t drink it of course it is safe for you but it isn’t healthy of course and . (em) you shouldn’t drink it of course 
 thank you I hope that other participants have also (em) heard your answers and would not drink . solutions 
 ok (uhu) any other questions (uhu) well  well you’re welcome   
 ok so the theme is of course science and advertising and (em) you were using (em) you were testing these household items so I would like for to know your ideas and thoughts and how the . ideas people had at home . so you know those home treatments . how do those relate advertising since they not being sold 
 (em) .. I don’t understand your question well you mean that how people use (em) this poisoning fluids 
 ok 
 or what do you mean 
 (em) so the (em) usually when we hear about advertising . we think something a company is selling something to us yes .. so (em) you chose (em) to test these household . items which I thought was actually quite interesting perspective  of advertising so how do you see household treatment .. how how do you think that is a form of advertising 
 well 
 how those two really . I don’t know if it’s too hard to understand or if I.m communicating well so  if you can help 
 well yeah I think well (em) can you recommend can you advertise any antidotes for well homehold treatment well (em) a simple question (em) what antidotes should I have at home and is it possible to . well advertise . any antidotes (em) for people 
 (em) 
 Like this  
 I think that . we never ready . for this situations when we're getting poisoning poisoned or something went wrong in our . household so people don’t make antidotes for .. these situations (em) they just have a situation and then they will thought what they can do . I took (em) the most popular . antidotes which can . be used . for these .. poisoning fluids (em) in our booklet we .. made a short plan how you can help yourself .. (em) if it was made in English I would give you it  
 it’s ok in case of emergency you’ve got several steps yes in your booklet 
 there are some tips and recommendations from doctors like a plan for first aid  
 yeah . well . I think it’s really great . if people can read and they know the first step the second and so on well ok  thank you very much 
