hello everyone it is pleasure to be here and today I would like to talk about resonation of the nineteen sixties counterculture ideas in the novel Narcissus and Goldman by Herman Hesse . to begin with I should say that Herman Hesse is the German writer who did not have a world wide recognition at the beginning of his path . however in the middle of the twenty century the situation changed and his works suddenly gained popularity outside the German community . (eh) particularly in the United States and here we wondered what was the reason for that .. so to find out the answer for this question we purpose the next hypothesis Hesse's works suddenly gained popularity in the United States (eh) because there is the most popular topics of the nineteen sixties counterculture movement .. analysis defined what counterculture is . counterculture is a way of life and set of values which oppose to the values of the total society . in the nineteen sixties countercultural tendencies became endemic and the United States started just blowing up from protests . people expressed their disagreement with the mainstream values and united into movements concerning such issues as racial segregation the American involvement into Vietnam war (eh) women`s discrimination in all aspects of life  all the terms of behaviour related to sexuality and sexual relationships and finally deterioration of environmental conditions and its negative impact on humanity ... (eh) so reading Hesse's novel Narcissus and Goldman that was written in nineteen thirty you can see its brief summary on the slide (em) we were may come a cross the some aspects that were not typical for society of the time that (eh) of the time when a book was written (eh) some aspects that later become highly relevant for the sixty generation and (eh) the first aspect that I would like to talk about is deep connection with the environment . Goldman's harmony with nature in the novel it is absolutely doubtless . wondering and forests countrysides he shows interest and plants and trees and empathy towards killed animals . to his mind nature is the life origin so it is where he is trying to find himself very similarly to hippies members of the nineteen sixties counterculture who led back to nature lifestyle the environment becomes a significant part of Goldman part he misses and comes back to through the home novel . and it leads us to the next aspect Goldman becomes a man of nature land by animal instincts he becomes the seducer who never loses the opportunity to spend time with the woman and during his dease of wondering he meets many women and all of them are seen (eh) as just a part of his experience they only have him to shape the image of the universal mother that he believes them (eh) thus we understand that in the novel sexual experiences are seen as something enreaching rather than something sinful and at reason to music of the nineteen sixty is very much because it was the sixties counterculture that turned the concepts of family relationships upside-down and let to normalisation of such things as promiscuity parental sexual relationships and others .. (eh) now let's address on the aspect related to the sexual liberation movement it is homosexuality .. although Goldman experiences his life in the arms of fashioned women he does not actual love any of them (eh) only loves the joy and passion that them bring him . the least physical but the most enduring and powerful kind of love can active Goldman with Narcissus . and they may be difficult to perceive love beyond physical it is clear that a connection between the two men is not just friendship or a brief acquaintance .. both men expressed their love to each other openly and their relationship is definitely an example of new morals (eh) that the generation of the sixties  to establish ... (eh) the last aspect I would like to talk about today is antisemitism .. Goldman ones met Rebekka a Jewish girl who is get all got completely burning down because Jews have been accused to the cause of the  and Goldman carries her story throughout his whole life eraser image and we can understand that historian of being a victim of persecutions made a great impression on him Goldman feels sorry for the Jewish community that God (eh) mistakenly blamed and violently attacked for the outbreaks for the black death which by the way somebody does not know actually happened in Europe in the middle of the fourteen century . antisemitism is generally considered be form of racism so we made draw a parallel between Jews and black people of the middle of the twentieth century . practical society division who guard treated badly only due their urgent .. so Narcissus and Goldman as well as other works of Herman Hesse brings out the things of sexuality protection of the environment and opposition to any kind of violence in the world . so people of the nineteen sixties could definitely find in the novel a reflection of the values that the  to establish (eh) and those of the example of this novel we suddenly have proved our hypothesis (eh) . that the popularity rises of Hesse's works in the middle of twenty century in the United States may be explained by the fact that the master managed to perceive the future and (eh) mirror (em) the values the topics that lately become became extremely relevant for people and the last thing I would like to quickly point out is that the events of the sixties gave foundation (eh) for the moral system of modern people and that's why not only is it an intriguing and captivating to explore the social change over time but it is also very important as we must we should know the origin of our character and reading Hesse's books is a great opportunity to do that to do that and get amazed  by the social political importance (eh) his works had in the United States for the sixties and seventies generation . thank you very much for your attention and if you have any questions feel free to ask them

thank you very much  . any question . I feel uncomfortable because of my curiosity  you use a very interesting metaphor in your title a resonating yeah let's say. there`s some resonance between Hesse and nineteen sixties . can you explain it by using some other words and maybe terms . what do you imply by resonance

maybe reflection it is not clear the thing is that (eh) Hesse's works Hesse himself (em) wrote before the sixties counterculture and I couldn't point out in the right way that human issued to foresee the events the future events that his works (eh) were influenced by the counterculture movement

yeah okay he was not influenced by that because that would be anachronism . well (eh) ... again that he foresaw the hippie movement for example

he did not foresee the movement itself and all of the movements but he (eh) .. he could perceive he could predict (eh) the things that people would be interested in that would be highly relevant for people in the future

why I am not sure about that he is reflecting something that was before him

that is the thing .  I just thought that the word resonation (eh) would be quite clear that

what that be a  explanation he was writing the book experienced in something which he brought in the past

no that is not what I mean

I mean that would be an easy explanation . no . then telling something that he foresaw some trends in the future would it be an easy explanation

I guess so

what I mean is you list factors of environment promiscuity homosexuality and antisemitism do you know where find the same list in the literature at the bring from the nineteenth to twentieth century . for example writers similar to Oscar Wilde do you know where also find that . in the European romanticism in the beginning of the nineteenth century nature promiscuity homosexuality antisemitism so this is the list that we saw much earlier than Hesse . so maybe we should look at him this way he experienced and influenced from the past

nineteen that these aspects (eh) are earlier used by Hesse it is obviously that we can see we can meet this aspect in the works of other writers (eh) but the thing was we wanted to prove the hypothesis that his works became (em) popular because there is this various topics

well that is I mean it should that the point that should be proven what people like becomes popular ... and anything from the past can become popular Aristotle become popular from  become popular at some period

yeah sure but it was interesting to have a look at what a writer could what topics a writer could raise (eh) at the time when it was not maybe suitable to see so

in just another fact just a fact I am giving to you (eh) Hesse became popular in the Soviet Union in the eighties in the nineteen eighties .. when there was no talk about promiscuity there rigid moral standards nothing about homosexuality definitely there was no official antisemitism and the society was turning actually technological in the eighties so all the facts again contradict what you single out but Hesse did become popular at that time . that`s mystery why then just as a fact

thank you for  if I understand you right so you are saying that . Hesse gained popularity in America in nineteen sixties and you are thinking that it had something to do with this resonance between his ideas and between what was going on in the culture of America at the time

yeah that what I thought

right . so (em) . my question is wouldn’t you want to look at the history of publication and reception of Hesse's work in the USA at that time if you want to prove that this resonance existed . if we stay in this round of ideas just probably just like  is saying a lot of ideas they don't really belong to particularly time or culture . it is (em) not like imagine exercise but if you look at the you know I do not know the publishing houses that shows that made the decision to publish particular novels of Hesse (eh) what made them come to this decision because I am pretty sure it's documented how these novels were received by the public what the reviewers of these novels looked at and highlighted as a significant issues I do not know in the novels well if you look at that aspect then you might actually prove that at this moment to history in nineteen sixties you know in the USA the novels of Hesse became interesting for those reasons that you are pointing out you know it would be I think the way to go to look at what was going on in the publisher's and in the reader's hands as well as to look at the (em) at the novel itself so not maybe so much a question as a suggestion


thank you very much . I`ll take that into consideration  

and that would probably good to do under basis of also comparison with some other maybe German writers at the same period . yeah I mean is he really a favourite . maybe some writers where more popular than he . yeah again what the point of seizing yes you should look at the issues of the novels how much was published during particular period how many of them published  

 may I ask a question 

 oh sure of course . I didn`t expect that . you are welcome 

 yeah . I think that your previous questions were more about the past but I am more interested in the present (eh) what do you think so as you mentioned yes the topics of homosexuality and if you read Steppe Wolf I guess that would be in translation so is just if I not mistaken it is something about transsexuals or transgenders I do not really remember do you think that now these topics would be maybe understood from point of view that Hesse is actually pretty homophobic or transphobic so what do you think about these like his ideas and he was pretty progressive for his time but what about our time

 I think it is kind of weird to (em) consider (em) writers from so long ago homophobic or transphobic or anything else because he lived in other time and such things like were not relevant at the time yet it was not written (eh) with the aim to (eh) . I do not know to say something bad about somebody else so I do not think it would be (em) proper say such things about (eh) writers like Herman Hesse . thank you

