 ( er) the first speaker (er)  (er) school number seventeen from  yeah  and (er)  (er) has a very complex well topic . acid neutralizing effectiveness of modern antacids and the booklet entitled . antacid drug application rules  

 yes 

 well (er) okay I think  you can start well .. start the demonstration yeah .. well you are welcome 

 (em) start . yes 

 yeah (er) thank you 

 (er) hello my name is  . I am a student of  gymnasium seventeen and today we want to tell you our project on the topic (er) . acid neutralizing antacids and and a booklet entitled antacid drugs application rules .. (em) ... one of the most popular features of (er) diseases of the digestive tract is heartburn an unpleasant burn feeling in the chest stomach and esophagus . in these cases there are usually used antacid drugs that reduce the . acidity of gastric juice . the question is how effective and safe those drugs work and what influence they could have on human body in order to figure it . we decided to conduct a work on this topic . the aim of the study was to conduct a comparative study of the acid neutralizing . effectiveness of antacids .. hypothesis .  let's assume that acid neutralizing agents in the form of suspensions and gels are more effective than pills as we have a larger contact surface of reaction substances 

 (er)  sorry for interrupting . are you changing the slides of your  presentation 

 yes. yes 

 well (er) it's (er) a specific feature of zoom (er) . you you can do . well okay let it be like this . (mhm) okey ... well now I think it will be a bit different . yeah now it's great . well sorry for interrupting . well we can continue 

 (er) okey ... (er) the research objectives are presenting on the slide .. (er) antacids are medicines intended for the treatment . of acid dependent diseases of the gastrointestinal tract by neutralizing . hydrochloric acid which is a part of gastric juice . traditionally all antacids are divided into absorbable and non-absorbable .. (em) absorbed antacids include for example baking soda magnesium and calcium carbonate . non absorbable antacids include aluminum magnesium antacids . there were five antacids compared in our work for medications maaloks gastal reni fosfoligel and baking soda . the comparison was carried out based on an assessment of acid neutralizing (eh) efficiency . we investigated the acid neutralizing efficiency by measuring the ph of a . hydrocoric . acid solution after adding antacids to it . the ph was measured using a ph meta . maaloks and fosfoligel were in liquid dosage forms gastal and reni were in the form of tablets . in order to study the acid neutralizing ability we had measured a solution of hydrochloric acid with PH one which is typical for the stomach with heartburn .. the drug maaloks contains magnesium hydroxide aluminum and its composition . it refers to non-absorbable antacids . when the components of maaloks interact with hydrochloric acid reaction presenting on the slide proceed . the ph of a hydrochloric acid solution after the . addition of maaloks was measured after five ten and fifteen minutes . the PH values are presenting on the slide and have been entered . into a general summary table for all other antacids . the study was conducted similarly ... the drug fosfoligel contains aluminum phosphate each refers to a non-absorbable antacids then interaction with hydrochloric acid reaction presenting on the slide ... (er) reni's preparation contains calcium and magnesium carbonate . it refers to absorbable antacids .  when the reni components interact with hydrochloric acid the reaction presenting on the slide proceed .. the gastal preparation contains aluminum hydroxide magnesium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide . it is a combined antacid . then (er) the ... reni components interact with hydrochloric acid the reaction presenting on the slide occurs .. baking soda is (er) sodium . bicarbonate and is unabsorbable antacid when soda interacts with . hydrochloric acid of gastric juice reactions presenting on the slide takes place with the ph values of the . hydrochloric acid solution after the addition of soda as shown on the slide . also when soda interacts with hydrochloric acid . an active release of carbon dioxide is absorbed . which leads to blotting and stretching over stomach . in this regard soda is not recommended as. an . antacid ... from the result obtained .  it can be concluded that the fastest active antacid is baking soda . however, it has a lot of side effects . the highest acid neutralizing capacity was  by gastal which consists of three components at once and is a combined antacid . the lowest acid neutralizing ability was shown by maaloks and fosfoligel despite the fact that they were presenting in the liquid form .. (er) after receiving results of the study and analyzing the scientific data we have compiled an information booklet now I can . watch you . (er) I . did . it for myself and my classmates . the booklet reflects the concept of acid depended  (er) diseases and describes rules for taking antacids ...  as a result of (er) research work the analysis of literature sources about antacids is carried out . the evaluation of methods for determining the acid neutralizing effectiveness of antacids was carried out . a study shame was developed . there was neither a conclusion about the effectiveness of the study drugs . an information booklet about rules for the use of antacids has been prepared for the public . the evolution of methods for determining the acid neutralizing effectiveness of the antacids were carried out ... our work was dedicated to the study of the acid neutralizing ability of antacids . our  hypothesis about the higher effectiveness of the the suspensions and gels comparing to the pills has not been confirmed . we have shown that the acid neutralizing ability is justified by the composition . of the antacid agent . absorbable antacids have a greater acid neutralizing ability  than non-absorbable ones and have a faster onset of effect . however  we have found that absorbable antacids have a larger number of side effects . it has also been shown that .. it is irrational to use baking soda as an antacid since it leads to stretching over stomach . all the tasks set by us at the beginning of the work have been full completed .. the list of references is presenting on the slide .. thank you for your attention 

 well . thank you very much  . now well Melanie you're welcome .. (mhm) 

 (em) okey so. I thought . that was a very . excellent presentation . you did a great job . (em) I thought that was a good experiment too I remember doing that one .  when I was in high school  so (em) .. your I was wondering exactly (em) .. do you kind of have do you have any ideas .. if you could do anything you wanted in this experiment how would you (em) ... first I have a science question and then an advertising question . so this is my science question .. if you could do anything you wanted do you have any ideas on .. how you would (em) make the . experiment more thorough . or allow . you to get more conclusive results 

 (mhm) well in fact about further study .. yeah  (mhm) 

 (em) okay . thank you for the question . (em) ... I ... this my experiment which I did at school it was (er) easy (er) and it is the first and I think it is (em) ... I think (em) ... I will ... do with my teacher  maybe ..  two and three experiments  .. (em) to this .. (em) work but I don't know .. (em) which .. (em) ... I do something 

 (mhm) you are not sure about the plans for the future yeah 

 I yes

 about  the further I do (hmh) okey 

 I let someone else go 

 (mhm) ok ... well we have one more question (uhu)  (uhu) 

 thank you  for your nice presentation it was a very clear design I have just a little qualification question and . a general question . the first one (er) .. it was clear for me that's for medicine.. (er)  for the drugs you tested one tablet but how much baking soda you were using  because   when I saw the whole package I could believe that it was about testing either a tablespoon the whole package it was not quite clear . and the second question is about side effects . so you've mentioned this stretching of the stomach but what are the side effects of other drugs and how they could be evaluated and compared to each other  

 (em) ok (em) thank you for your question . I use . as I said . (er) four (er) medicines and baking soda (er) the (er) baking soda I find at home and (er) .. I use one spoon (er) for the experiment . and the second question .. can you repeat please 

 (er) it's about side effects other any side effects other drugs  can you compare them in terms of side effects  

 (em) .. I know only one side effects effect it is a stretch (em) ... in the stomach ..(em) ... that's all .. (er) ... in the internet I find the only one side effect 

 thank you 

 (er) do you find it dangerous .. well you have found well this side effect . do you think it can be really dangerous for our health 

 dangerous what  

 well this side effect . you were talking about 

 yes I think it is dangerous and .. I will not recommend baking soda  .. I think it is dangerous and the stretching in the stomach it is also dangerous 

 because as far as I know well many people use baking soda 

 yes .. I also think that . many I also know that many people use baking soda but  (em) .. I don't know .. that baking soda have side effects 

 (hmh) yes .. well now you know about this and you can inform you can well give recommendations not to use it .. yeah well (hmh) .. thank you ... any other questions .. ok .. well thank you  very much well a very for me is (er) well a very complex topic about different drugs and so on and 




