 do you see the presentation  
 yes . we can  . (er) can you make it full screen and check that you can move between the slides 
 yeah  ... hello . let me introduce myself . my name is   . I am a student of the tenth form English language school number seven . and  . (er) my researcher my research title is emoji that you all forgot  . in English classes at school we studied the history of religions and as you know . in Islam any depictions of people or animals are forbidden  . so when we started to learn Christianity I was really surprised (er) by the icons . of this religion and I wanted to learn its meaning . I wanted to learn more . so (er) the aim of my research is to look into the meaning of the icon symbols and their interpretations and to get better awareness or their coherence between them  . (er) .. technologies are taking over (er) our world more and more every day  .  and smart forms became an integral part of our everyday life  . and so digital messages  . in the late nineteen-nineties the emoji appeared .. in having non obvious similarities with the religious gestures  . emoji appeared to replace some of the words in digital messages . leaving the question of how far it is relevant . so . to achieve (er) the aim . I have to accomplish some objectives  .. the first is to search into symbolic hand gestures  in orthodox 
    I'm sorry . I hate to say that but again we cannot see the slides changing 
  ? ????? ? ??? ?????? ?????   
 we're still on title slide 
 (erh) and  now 
   yeah . now we can see another one 
 (er) so  .. in order to achieve the aim . a number of objectives have to be accomplished  . the first is to research into symbolic hand gestures in orthodox icons . then to compare and contrast certain gestures and their interpretation and emoji . and to trace the interrelations of icon and emoji gestures  . . objects of my research are are the gestures of the icons of the orthodox church and the emoji gestures and interrelations between them  . (er) .. subjects of the research are possible similarities and differences between icon gestures and emoji  . (eh) ..  and during the research I compared (em) gestures of the icons and emoji . then tried to classify them into different and similar ones … in the course of my work . a number of icon and digital images were analyzed as well as open internet sources on the theme gestures and icons .. traditionally . according to orthodox canons . there exist seven canonic depictions of icon representing gestures  .. so (er) above left that's hand and heart . the next is two open palms  .. (er) below that's the blessing right hand and the next . (er) . is arms …across the chest 
 I'm afraid the slides are not moving again  . maybe it's better to share the whole screen .. we are really sorry about it  . we don't know why this keeps happening 
 and what slide is now 
 now we can see the slide with some icons . yeah 
 okay .. shall I repeat it again (em) about 
  no no no . I think we remember 
 (em) the next three icons and gestures of the icons are the beginning of the speech . special attention . and last but not the least that I say … (er) further on. I have studied the emoji . some emoji have religious gestures are visually similar . and can be used in different spheres . like for example . I say and the goat . then folded hands . victory hand . and the blessing hand .. (er) the meaning of a emoji and icons that's again the next Internet source . sources that I have learned  . according to the sources I've explored . that there are similarities in the interpretation of certain gestures . (er) furthermore I interviewed a teacher of the orthodox gymnasium  who is also a priest and questions (er) I was interested in where.. what meaning do the gestures in icons convey and is it possible for emoji to become interpretations of icons? … (em) the information obtained showed among the emoji and gestures of the icons there are similar ones and only two absolutely identical gestures . so if you look at the slide we'll see the gesture the goat . on icone`s the hand of Jesus Christ is often depicted in this way . thus pointing to the gospel in his hand . indicating special attention . this sign is also known to have been appropriated by some musical movements . and there are two versions of its origin  .. the first that is from the icons and still means special attention .. and the second that is the horns or the devil and means hell it or rock it  … the next gesture . is folded hands . this sign has the same meaning in the icons and the emoji means prayer . but sources that have been studied proof . in emoji this gesture originates from Japanese culture and it (er) means please  but in addition it means thank you … (em) victory hand and (em) the blessing hand .. these signs are similar in appearance . but they are radically different in meaning  . . (em) in the emoji it means peace .. (er) and it's called victory hand there .  while in the icons it's called the blessing hand . and that's the letters I C X C .. that's an abbreviation .. (em) from .. for the Greek (er) word Jesus Christ . so his name in Greek .. based on my research . several conclusions can be drawn  . . emoji as digital messages can be decoded in different ways  .. certain emoji might be interpreted nowadays not only in the way they should be . but surprisingly . meaning different things from they should do .. should .. what we expect them to represent . the practical relevance of my work is to help build awareness of the meaning of symbolic sign and to promote better communication between (em) people of different cultures ages  beliefs  and  et cetera .. (er) the work deals with only with one aspect of the question  . . research in this direction could be continued .. it could be a study not only of the similarity of the items gestures . but also for the reasons for them  . . . (em) thank you for your attention . I'm ready to answer your questions 
 thank you .  . are there any questions from listeners … I was wondering about the following aspect of your talk (er) originally emojis . as far as I know . come from the Japanese culture . which is quite far away from the orthodox religion .. and why do you try to find correspondences between these two very distanced . phenomena 
 okay . (er) thank you for your question . first of all . I  .. always knew meanings of some hand gestures and emoji  . . so when I tried (er) to explore and to try to knew toknow something about (er) gestures of the icons . I explored that they are similar . and maybe . as you know . (erm) emoji .. have not only Japanese origin . but also . (erm) from some Western countries . so as I have said before . some gestures (erm) originated from other cultures .
 so are we here talking about a particular present cultural meaning, the meaning of one culture or some universal language . Have you observed similar gestures in Latin American`s . Latin American`s cultures or paintings or in African inscriptions 
 I didn't touch this upon this question . but I think no .. I didn't touch this question 
 is your hypothesis that they are parts of European culture only ...  these gestures and these meanings 
  I don`t know. I don't think that's only a part of the European culture . but ... because I was interested in the icons or the .. orthodox church of christianity so I try to compare them 
 see . any other questions 
 great. thank you   . so you talked about .. standard interpretations of different emoji . emojis. I have no idea . (er) but my question is .. (erm) are these standard interpretations or standard meanings . codified in some form . or do you just believe that most people use for instance this emoji . as a thank you or please sign  
 (mhm) (er) .. before the research .. (em) I tried to understand this and I asked some of my friends also . tried to find it in the Internet . so .. yes these gestures . these free emoji gestures usually (er)..  used with this meaning 
 yeah .. but you were probably talking . as you said . to your friends and to people who . share your culture . your language . and many other things . I wonder (hm) . how universal these meanings are .. so . for instance . can we really be sure . that most people . I don't know around the world . use certain symbols in certain meanings . I know that with some emojis . there is a wide variety of meanings that people ascribe to them .. (hm) so my question .. would be (hm).. do you consider this variation in your research or do you believe this to be a relatively straightforward issue 
 (hm) I think .. usually these gestures are interpreted this way .. so, yes 
 they’re interpreted this way by you and by people you have talked to . but by many people with whom you have not talked . they might be interpreted very differently or they may indeed be interpreted this way but you don't know that on the basis of your .. ehm .. study. well .. thank you. I think it's very interesting talk 
 sorry. but I want to say that .. I found the information .. in a modern dictionary .. so if it's written there . maybe  
 That was my first question . is it codified in some form . and now you're saying that there is in a modern dictionary . so . maybe yeah. maybe it explains something . thank you.  
 is there anything else . anybody would like to know have some time for one question .. no..  if not .    thank you very much . (er) you may stop sharing your screen .. and . we'll move on to another speaker 
