 …good afternoon dear colleagues my name is  and I'm a student of the lyceum number two and I want to present you my research on the topic (er) people born to slavery the russ=Russian the description of (erm) the sixteenth century Russian society in Sigismund’s von Herberstine’s notes . it is a situation of his work in the title . (em) during . fifteenth and sixteenth centuries due to the age of discoveries the European interest in other cultures was developing and the second discovery of Russia was a significant part of this process . because of frequent political and economical contacts various books were published for example (er) treaties (erm) travel accounts or diplomatic reports (er) regarding the image of Russia has a big impact on stereotypes in international relations and (er) the history of politics I want to study the basis of it the European descriptions were focused on three main questions three main topics religion civility the level of civilization and the system of government . in addition the issue of slavery was related with all of these points it was a common feature in . all the descriptions the slavery was a degree of the lack of civility in Russia as American historian Lanny Wolfe said . so my study aims to examine European concept of slavery in relation to Russian society of early modern era (erm) the research object is Herberstein’s book Notes on Muskovy and the subject is (em) the concept of slavery and the meaning of terms which he had (erm) he have used . You can see my task on the slide (erm) first of all I want to figure out the context of the term slave in Herberstine’s notes to understand what situation .is described . (erm) secondly I would like to characterize the phenomena similar to Russian slavery for Herberstine for example exemplary slaves in his mind . and (erm) consequently reconstruct the meaning the main sense of (er) the concept describe the main (erm) points of Herberstine’s notion . I've chosen notes about Muskovy as (er) the most (er) representative source about (er) of (er) the European view to Russia he was the Habsburgs  ambassador in Russia and Turkey . (er) and after visiting Russia he wrote a diplomatic report to Maximilian the First and later published it the Latin edition in (er) fifteen forty-nine and the German edition in fifteen fifty-seven the second one is more detailed is more (er) is more common to author . it was (em) the authorized translation the book (er) has a huge popularity (er) it was the ideal description of Russia . as Russian scholar Anna Horoshkevich said . to my mind it is necessary to compare both editions to understand his concepts better to understand differences between two descriptions . (erm) the historiography on this book is huge but we don't have a textual research yet . so my task is to reconstruct the notion of slavery and the (erm) meaning of terms which Herberstine used . first of all I analyzed the context of (er) the term slave usage . in first group of examples (em) he was trying to use it to describe the legal dependence of a specific part of society the legal slavery which in Russia named kholopstvo . they could be given as a dowry in this example . they were people of th= a specific social status specific legal status . (erm) So (erm) then I compared the status of Russian holops German Knecht he used this term in German edition and Latin service he used it in Latin (mm) edition .. (erm) so (erm) the sense of these (mm) this concepts meaning is common . knechts in sixteens century Austria were the lowest stratum of peasantry landless laborers and service in legal science where late Roman dependent worker not a powerless slave not an ancient slave but (erm) dependent (er) man who (mm) have some basics (er) basics rules . (er) so service an equal term to Russian (er) term kholop only he described not only Russian slave but a specific part of society . (er) secondly I (mm) (erm) I (mm) focused on the metaphorical meaning of this term . (erm) in this context (er) in this example you can see he used this term not to describe for specific parts of society but to describe (er) the (erm) the (er) dependence metaphorically and emotionally because we can’t we don't know what (erm) (er) what the meaning (mm) in the term slave of  it’s a metaphor . so I used two linguistic corpora in German and Latin to qualify the usage of legal terms and figures of speech . learning works by German Latin theologians philosophers and historians allows me to say that Herberstine used concept slavery to express Russian society emotionally not always he wrote about specific legal slaves more often about people dependent on the Grand Prince Authority . (em) he also used to terms (er) servitus and Dienstbarkeit which means any type of dependence in this struggle period from capacity to addiction or slavery so it's (er) most used as an emotional term . so taking everything into account I would like to fo= lay the origins of his slavery vision . the notion of slavery on his account is (er) uneven . there is an accurate sociological observation . slavery is a legal condition and a figurative description of any types of dependence . knowledge of the Roman law he (er) has studied in Vienna university allows him to identify the status of Russian slaves correctly . they were members of the uneven group with the different set of rights but his background . he was an Austrian nobleman . determines his view on the Russian society all types of dependence he identified as a slavery . there stands an image of (er) Russian society had a significant impact on the later accounts but (er) the metaphorical concept of slavery was quite simplified . (erm) I'd like to give a context of the ideas in sixteenth century because I think that Herberstine was a part of humanist movement but (er) his concept was quite unique for this period . (er) Juan de Sepúlveda Spanish philosopher (erm) who written the concept of barbarians wrote that slavery is natural and necessary conditions for uneducated but barbarians because they couldn't they couldn’t live (er) without (er) . without authority of the power . and Martin Luther German (er) theologian (er) while (er) he was translating (er) the (er) Latin Biblia into German he translated all types of dependence in one term knechtschaft . and (er) for him there are were no difference between the types of addiction the type of dependence . but for Herberstine’s for Herberstine slavery is unnatural even in uneducated societies . It stops the development for that society So if all people are slaves the society hasn’t a development . so I want to emphasize that (er) (erm) Herberstine (er) . in my view wouldn't (er) (er) haven’t tried to blacken the a culture unfamiliar to him on the contrary in his attempt to understand its specifies he came across incomprehensible for him phenomenon of slavery . they are noted Pavel the grand prince in Russia . Pavel has  of the highest aristocracy and the church  treatment of the population . Notes about Musko= on Moscow  in this view in my view in my view are not a collection of myths like our Minister of Culture Vladimir Medinsky said or other Russian historian or a political pamphlet but the reflection of a humanist . a warning to Europeans about the dangers of unlimited rule unlimited power of the Grand Prince . so thank you for attention and I'd like to answer your questions how if you go back to the slide with the three (erm)  and yeah this one . how why do you think there can be such a difference in their interpretations within the humanist kind of . the  of people how can people within that . interpret it so differently . how some can think it’s completely natural and some think it's unnatural I think it depend on their background because they were people of different cultures Spanish German or (erm) but under a different different view on the world . cos one of him was philosopher one of them was theologian and Herberstine was a nobleman was an ambassador in  his career so I think such differences determine the peculiarities of his view of their view and their ideas in this case are different
Are you sure that meaning of the serve of the  by Luther is equal of serve of Grand Duke by Herberstine sure (er) it isn’t equal yeah but on Herberstine’s account there is two semantical lines and in Russian it is such a d= eas= it’s uneven it’s incompatible because different types of dependence described by one term and we lose the difference between  types of dependence yes about Luther and Herberstine (erm) did the same yes yeah one and . only one term they use (er) used to (erm) (mm) denonte various types of dependence yes but the meaning of a slave I’ve got by  is not the same meaning as in Herberstine and I want I’d like  to emphasise that in german edition of  Herberstine he used a term …  which mean any kind of dependence while Luther used term knechtschaft which are more comprehensible more . (erm)  more . meaningful I think so . it depends of context of usage we cannot understand for sure I think  really really thank you very much for presentation  thank you very much for coming and presenting