  be not appropriate to use this exa exact word .. for kids  who are watching this (er) and for situation in the cartoon more suitable will be synonym   . frankly  speaking the most complicated thing during the translation is to comply all difficulties because it is hard to keep (er) every trait in mind .. after .. even after double check there were some mistakes and inaccuracies in work so it is obligatory to check everything several times ... in conclusion I would like to note that as far as film and animation industry is dynamic we cannot exclude that this sphere is open to changes.. it is worth saying that languages are shifting too and we must remember this .. it might happen that some of the difficulties will disappear some will be the same and some will come. difficulties in animated cartoon translation is an area that can be endlessly changing ... and also my theoretical ..(uhu).. my practical part was an animated cartoon translation ... (er) and if I have time I can show (er) 1 minute episode to you 
   I'm sorry but you are very significantly over the time limit 
  okay 
  (er) maybe we'll save time for questions and discussions .. thank you very much .. (er) is that is the end of your speech 
  yes 
 so .. (em) colleagues participants you are very much welcome with your questions ...  please  
  I just wanted to check with the raise hand function . so hello I'm  . I'm one of the panelists from Ohio University . (em) I guess my question was I love  to watching it . was it challenging.. (em) were there extra aspects added with a movie that also has French language aspects as well and localizing and translating it 
  I ... is it correct that you asked about French .. (er) words in the subtitles . yes 
  yes 
  well .. (er).. I would like to say that (er) I am keen on cooking so I know some of the words of the French words and names for example dishes or products . but.. (er) during the translation I also used a French dictionary because they were some words that I didn't know 
   to ask a couple of questions I hope you can answer them shortly . see how it goes . you introduced two terms at the beginning of your speech .. (er) preserving adequacy and accessibility .. was in the final task. how do you understand and treat accessibility here . in the context of your translation 
   well... (er) I would say that it is also goes in the style of the text and with the account of address factor .. because .. (er) the translation needs to be .. must be (er) accessible (er) for kids .. (er) like the words should be .. (er) in the same level of their knowledge .. I would say 
 from that are you sure that they will understand like  little kids 
 well it happens sometimes that .. (er) there is something for ..(er) adults too . and I think everyone can agree that there are some places and episodes in every cartoon that (er) children can ask their parents 
   thank you yeah I see . I want to ask particular about one of your practical examples connected with syntax (er).. what it seemed to me that you actually did not have any difficulties about translating syntax but you went literally word by word reproducing the grammatical forms of (er) verbs for example without going or something like that .. so what   was actually the difficulty here 
   (er)  
  is translation seems like completely mirror of the syntax 
   I think (er) here is the .. difficulty is that .. (er) .. in Russian we have the .. we don't have the exact rules of how we put words like the order of words but ..(er) in English we have . so they were an example of how (er).. sentences look different like in .. in the order of words 
  okay (mhm) (er) If we have one more question think of  that one 
 yeah. well thank you for the talk just one short question like the previous speaker you .. call .. the difficulties the difficulties . and my question is .. so  when I hear the word difficulty .. I understand that you mean that it's always possible to translate something . so it might be difficult but you can do it . and in your experience as a translator have you faced maybe cases words sentences phrases when you .. (er) notice that it's not difficult it's simply impossible to translate something adequately accessibly just accurately to any degree 
  (er) I think no because it was a cartoon and the words is easier than (er) .. in a film for example . so I would say that yes I had to (er) .. consult some open sources but (er) .. I translated everything that I wanted to do     
  thank you 
  that's great to hear .. (er) thank you very much (er).. 
       
   