 good morning . um . good afternoon . my name is  . I'm a student of the 10th grade of  (um) . it is know that on increase in the consumption of fruits vegetables and berries has a positive effect in the state cardiovascular system which is manifested by decreasing the risk of the cancer stroke and other diseases . close attention is payed in this way to the  which show have antioxidant and implementary properities  are water-soluble plant pigment which give colour to various fruits vegetables and flowers . this compounds provide a variety of colours and create  of plans and prevent damage to the photosynthesis apparatus of the plant cell from excessive solar radiation . in recent years the attention of researchers has been attracted by the polyphenols of wild dark-coloured berries . where there are a lot of the forest and therefore wild berries . so the study where is grown in territory of the republic is relevant, especially in the current etymological situation . oh the purpose of all work is to quantify the content of the polyphenol of berries grown on the territory of the republic of Karelia . you can see the objectives on the slide . in our research we used a spectophotonic analyses to determine the total amount of  . what is spectrophotometry.  it is a method of measuring how much a chemical substance absorbs light by evaluting the intensity of light as a beam of light passes through a sample solution . we took five samples so berries collected in the territory of the republic of Karelia . red currant . two samples of . lingonberries correct in different regions of the republic . two samples of cranberries. one which was frozen . okay. in our research . we use a spectrophotonic analyses to determine the total amount of  . what spectrophotometry . it's the method of measuring how much a chemical substance absorbs light by evaluting the intensity of light as a beam of light passes through a sample solution . we took five samples of berries collected on the territory of the republic of Karelia red current . two samples off lingonberries . one . (um) . which was collected in different regions off the Republic . two samples of cranberries . one of which was frozen . previously . we ground the berries through a sieve . later fifteen gram samples were taken . they were placed in a glass cups and twenty milliliters of  alcoholic mixture were added . the extraction was carried out for thirty minutes with Burdick steering . after the extraction . the extracts war filtered through a paper filter . then they were examined by spectophotometry . three measurements were performed for each extract . from the obtained data we can see that the highest concentration of anthocyanins is in a frozen cranberries sample . the smallest in red currant berries two samples of lingonberries collected in different regions of the Republic showed a slight difference in the content on anthocyanins . the composition of geologically active substance and the level of the accumulation depend on the soil climatic conditions of growth the growing season . which was shown in our experiment . cranberry samples . showed a significant difference in the content of anthocyanins with their predominance of biological active compounds in a sample or frozen berries . these difference in the polyphenol content can be explained by the concentration of biological active substance during freezing due to moisture loss . the lowest consideration of anthocyanins was noted in the berries of red currant . which is consistent with the fact that their content of anthocyanins is in direct ratio to intensity of the colour of the berries . our hypotesis are partially confirmed . the contents of polyphenols in dark coloured virus is higher than in slightly coloured ones . the assumption that the content of polyphenol of  berries of the same species but collected in different regions of Karelia was confirmed. We refuted the assumption that frozen berries will contain less of polyphenols . you can see the list of information sources on the slide. thank you very much for your attention 

 thank you  (um) . may I ask you how it happens so that you have come up with such a topic . what made you so interest so interested about uh . berries 

 yeah . thank you for the question . I think it is a long story but I will tell you um just a few years ago I was writing with some list of . my ides to the future and this year I found it and one of the things was why berries and fruits are healthy . I was like oh it is a great theme for my research . and I asked my uh teacher can I do this work? and she was really happy that I found this theme 
 thank you . and (um) . one more question . (uh) so if berries are healthy like (uh) pills and drugs (uh) are there any side effects? (uh) may I eat only cranberries (uh) on my breakfast lunch and dinner and (um) are they (uh) well balanced in terms of other substances
oh of course not . I'm going to continue my work in the future . but now I can say that all berries or fruits are very healthy for you . and (uh) the only difference is in the . how many other  vitamins are in these berries fruits and (erm) it's not really important if you would . eat . like a ten grams of lingoberries . you can eat twenty five grams . or uh maybe you (uh) .. cranberries or like other strawberries and it will be okay
okay . thank you so much . well . can you please . we're gonna move to the previous slide slide number six . well . and maybe my question will be about the data set . research data set . as far as I can see you have chosen to analyze ling=lingonberries . well that is lingonberry from two districts but all other well . samples and berries from well not district that he would like to identify . maybe that is the first question to you . and one more question why? and did you decide to analyze a sample of frozen cranberries? what is the idea underlying the choice?
(um) okay . thank you for a question . so because it is was autumn . and (um) berries are like we had only these berries in our fridges and (uh) . like this . so (um) my teacher had berriers from  District and I have a lingonberries from  District and they were (uh) . different like in  district there was a big berries like really big and in  District they were really small . and I was interested how that maybe (um) some difference between them and about frozen cranberries . so we had only one cranberry samples and we would like to think if we will frozen it will be maybe healthier or not because my mom said every time like . oh you should eat fresh strawberries is fresh berries it's more healthier than frozen ones . and I (uh) . confirmed this . refuted this statement
what was the most difficult part of your research?
 thank you for a question  . I think that the most difficult part of our my work was to (um) . make all these experiments in lab because it was very long time

