 my name is  . and I am a student of a  gymnasium number four . and today I am going to present you our examination called bionic and engineering as a way to brand new beauty standards . so let’s have a look at the slide . here are beautiful robot  and practical household robots are  . and now I have a question  . can we talk about beauty criteria regarding this particular problems . obviously yes . but when we talk about beauty standards we always make the connection between friends and humans external .. (erm) with thus vast majority of people associate beauty with people . but does it actually right . today no . it’s different . our research (er)   our research is focused on periodic (er) classification of beauty standards found  ten bright (er) time periods (er) in the western countries .. (er) depicting . the outstanding and remarkable .. (er) images of beauty in that particular time . so let’s have a quick glance on the each era . (er) initially in the ancient time body was considered as beautiful just in case it was healthy . then in  beauty was equal to harmony and symmetry . after that in Roman century  as you can see . (er) and pale skin was appeared .. (er) and as can be observed was increase of  figure it means plam figure as well (er) among with people who lived in the Renaissance period . (er) . (er) in the seventeenth century and Victorian era the perception of beauty . (er) has completely altered by the invention of the high (er) haircut and (eh) .. corsets which made huge negative impact on the .. bodies on the women’s bodies (er) .. yeah here is  .. and then in twentieth century . no twentieth century brought to the society . comfort. just comfor us . open legs open arms were accepted .. however the world were denying beauty emphasizing the naturalness . since then the plastic surgeries implants  and so on invented . so as we assumed there is a strong contiguity between beauty standards and social economic conditions . so  the next table it shows again the contiguity between (eh) the beauty aspects ... and the purpose of being beautiful in the particular time . so  I already told about it and next (eh) let’s move on .. and now we are located at the beginning of twenty one twenty first century where .. everything is allowed possible and accepted . there are the diversity of completely different body types existing and everyone can do with his body whatever he wants . that is how the tattoos piercings plastic surgeries implant  and so on become common .. moreover we have as much freedom as we have never had before . and well we have come to the foremost question . (eh) what this freedom will actually lead to .. look at this slide. it shows  from (er) the distance interaction for example line phone the smartphone or just mobile phone which we keep in our pocket so become became closer .. (er) to the smart  where we keep it our tent (erm) .. any track our  and finally it will lead towards the chip introduction towards the internal technological  . (erm) .. so it  our body  .. and some (er) ..  America and British countries companies are use it today .. to my mind in the year two thousand and fifty the concept of beauty will be completely altered . we have analyzed the periodic table that you have already seen . (er) and have and have come to the prediction that in the future  will be considered as practical and  . beauty will satisfy our needs .. (er) it will exceed our needs as consumers yeah .. (er) exceed our expectations by the technological equipment that will contain inside. and thus I suppose that people will make a huge step from the homosapiens towards homotechnicals for example . and consequently there is a gradual movement from the close emphasizing to the appearance changing and finally .. to the internal and  . to draw the conclusion the habitual perception of beauty will be replaced with comfort  and technological equipment . and now I can confidently declare that households robots are more practical ubiquitous and consequently beautiful despite the paradoxical sound . there is on the future everything will be more (er) technologically equipped . in case it will be more practical mobilized and comfortable and human is not an exception . thank you I open to your questions
  (uhu) 
 so thank you for the presentation any questions 
 I have a question  (erm) so what is the impact of this on the society
  yeah 
 … (mm) that’s  interesting… 
  in your opinion 
 in my opinion  
  you made this research right 
 it`s not .. I think that my research  haven`t got hasn’t got (er) an impact on the society . it’s just the prediction (eh) to the future . I wanted to show my thoughts and something that I want to tell about the future … 
 okay any other questions 
  your presentation (eh) could you please (eh) comment on (eh) the phenomenon on of the digital influences in the context of your presentation 
 phenomenon on .   of people   society 
  digital influencers 
 do you who is . who are they ? 
  maybe you  will comment comment .. just define 
 influencers?  well maybe  people for example Kim Kardashian is influencer influencer or any model on Instagram Natalya Vodyanova is influencer. . and now we have digital influencers . (er) could you could you please comment 
    
 I can’t say they are digital  
  they are digital 
 they are
 yes they are . at least one company in Russia which is create (er) which immigrate digital (er) digital influencers . and (er) some (er) fashion label labels use digital influencers  for teenagers 
  ah yeah yeah 
 sorry I get your thought . so yeah .. Illon Mask as well yeah 
 he is . is he digital 
 yes he is no 
 digital I think he is a human some kind 
  
 yeah but he made this project according to his … (eh) according to his ..  
  okay so 
 I just want (eh) . I just want to recommend you (eh) to look at (eh) look at the (eh) at the issue of digital influencers because it`s a (eh) very close to your topic and it maybe a kind of (eh) development for your project
 okay thank you 
 okay any other questions
 (erm) 
 yeah
   
  which one 
 next one 
 so (er) looking at this for example I am not trying to be like (erm) … okay   so my question is like looking at this in the society for example . and (erm)  I am not against it I am not against it but (erm) in the future what do you think the world will be looking at these pictures .. what do you think 
  yeah yeah I get you I get you 
 I think that it’s very personal ..  emphasizes themselves  yeah and I think that in the future the perception of beauty will be completely altered . I think there will be no .. for example  implants because will beauty will be  there will be . of course there will be beauty but it will be different it will be more technological it will be more practical  to use it in our live 
  (uhu) 
  will be or there will not be 
 and does it help
 yeah I think it will
 how
 to make life much easier .. much more 
 in sense of people who are disabled right or  
  not just for people who are disabled for everyone 
 plastic surgeons will go bankrupt 
 yeah
 okay so thank you very much thank you for your presentation 
