 in that case I`ll begin . (eh) today (eh) in the oh . I`ll introduce myself first of all . my name is . my name is  I am from Rostov-on-Don . I’m studying at lyceum fifty-seven and today I'd like to talk about fake news and development of media literacy (eh) .. today in the era of post-truth one of the significant phenomena of the media environment is fake news deliberately distorted deceitful news content fake news is spread through a wide variety of channels often affecting information consumers in a negative or destructive way (er) this phenomenon attracts the attention of scientists journalists IT-specialists and other professionals connected with information (er) we need to analyse fake news in order to help media users detect fakes and develop information verification skills … (er) the word fake is borrowed into Russian from English . here are some definitions from the dictionaries (er) you can see them on the screen right now (er) the definitions demonstrate the main feature of fakes they're deceitful nature they're the fact that they contain untruthful information (em).. so in short we can define fake news as deliberately deceitful news … (em) today we observe the change in the whole structure of news consumption traditional news channels for example TV (er) are losing ground to electronic media social networks and especially messengers (er) why is fake news published . on the one hand (er) fakes are a tool for manipulating the audience .. (er) on the other hand (er) in today's media space fakes are a popular way of making financial profit audience reach and engagement are monetised the profit of fake news authors depend on clicks reposting comments . it is important to note the negative indignant responses (er) are no less profitable because they increase the engagement which I mentioned earlier .. (er) .. there are various classifications on which I won't dwell in detail but you feel free to ask me questions at the end if you want me to (er) go into any more depth on them (em) … let's see an example of a fake that is quite dangerous because of how truthful it sounds it contains completely false information but causes a big emotional reaction supposedly pretended volunteers from various parties are giving out face masks soaked in drugs their aim is robbing people . during the pandemic this information grabs the recipient's attention and motivates them with the best intentions to share this fake with the wide audience fortunately the fake was refuted by the ministry of internal affairs of the rostov region and over twenty other sources . like the fake the disclaimer also went viral but at least it was truthful (em) … as part of my research oh sorry (mm) … there we go (em) .. as part of my research I created a survey (em) .. thanks to social networks we involved a wide audience three hundred and fifty-five respondents the survey included nineteen questions here I'll only comment on a few key questions and results (em) .. generally the respondents demonstrated a high level of mistrust towards any news sources the survey … confirmed the most of the users do not have any strategies of identifying fake news or dealing with it they know little about tools of information verification and the very need for such verification is not obvious to all but this subject is definitely perceived as topical (em) the vast majority eighty-seven point six percent find news on the internet most commonly on messenger sixty-four point nine percent … (em) as you can see on the slide right now … (em) next the absolute majority of respondents know about fake news (er) ninety-eight percent and most have come across fake news ninety four point four percent (er) as to which sources can be trusted seventy-seven point five percent said that lies can be encountered in any source … (eh) … for us the main aim (er) is developing media literacy . in this connection the question (er) what do you do (er) if you doubt truthfulness of the news is a very important one (er) here are the leading answers (er) I tried to check the validity of the news with special websites and tools thirty-nine point two percent . and I tried to find other news on the topic thirty point seven percent . seven point nine percent of the respondents do not believe that it's important to differentiate between truthful and false news which is quite sad from the point of view of media literacy … (em) many respondents appeared well-informed about the different ways of verifying information but thirty-seven point two percent stated that they knew nothing about them at all … sorry . sorry . seventy-nine point seven percent of the respondents would like to know more about the methods and tools of information verification which shows that it's a topical issue not only for resort searchers but for a wide range of users … we used the term verification to denote checking the validity of information included in the piece of news . it's a vast topic but here we'd like to offer simple short guidelines which should not require any specific knowledge or skills .. (er) here are these guidelines opinion or news (er) which is important because opinions can't be fake because they're (er) subjective check the news against common sense and general scientific knowledge (er) check the source (er) official or private valid or not (er) what is the website's training rating and authority check the links do they lead anywhere . check against other sources is the information published anywhere else .. (er) any deviations .. search for possible disclaimers . does the headline match the content make sure the headline is not looking for a sensation . so is not click bait (er) .. nature of information check that it's not too general all countries all animals et cetera . check numbers and stats where do they come from who gathered them researchers (er) scientific institutions do they match the descriptions these are those are the guidelines (em) and another example of fake news recently some truly sensational information started (er) spreading on social media supposedly (er) a young couple from Norilsk had a baby who according to his mom right after it was delivered clearly said papa and the very next day could talk distinctly and even form questions the happy parents both nineteen explain this by the abundant attention they had given the baby before birth . talking to him reading fairy tales and singing songs this piece of news doesn't even pass the second point of our guidelines because it doesn't stand to common sense and doesn't match our basic ideas about physiology . luckily soon after the first wave proposed a number of disclaimers were published … the main conclusion we can make today (er) is that it is important for every person to raise the level of their media literacy . the more informed the user is about possible lies in the new the less they can be manipulated and involved in misinformation that generates internet traffic and revenue for certain beneficiaries basically out of nothing (er) we hope there are guidelines which will certainly be further analysed and improved can become useful in this process thank you … your microphone is off   thank you so much  then I would like to welcome questions from the audience and (er)    I have a question for    yes please   so  how do you think what channel of communication spread news spread fake news more often . in the internet or .   I feel like that's something that is definitely up for (er) debate because (er) as I mentioned (er) most respondents and I kind of agree with this that (er) you can find (er) information that isn't true in basically any source (er) and it but … it depends I think I feel like the (er) source that provides the most fake information is the internet just because there is the most information on there in general I feel like because of (er) how much there is out there on the internet there is going to be more just because of the pure quantity of information general there's going to be more of it that's fake . so yeah I feel like the internet probably  and . second question (eh) why do fake news appear . why they appear   well (er) I discussed this briefly at the start of the presentation (er) I feel like the two main reasons for why fake news would appear was (er) either to manipulate an audience into believing something into thinking something into adopting a certain opinion or way of thinking or just for monetary gain because as I said (er) certain methods of spreading fake news can be monetised and thus audience engagement (er) earns the public your money . so yeah I like money and manipulation are the two main reasons   okay . thank you   thank you for such an interesting topic . nowadays it`s actual like (eh) have the never before . can you answer please what reasons do people have to read fake news fake information about each other   as I just mentioned I feel like (er) if someone spreads fake information about someone else I feel like the main reason in this case would probably be to (er) as I said manipulate people's opinions on this person or like an organisation or something like that (er) to damage somebody's reputation or similar things to that so yeah I feel like that's the reason   thank you  thank you . other questions   tell please do you think young people tend to believe in fake news or maybe just the elderly   I feel like young people believe in fake news less because I feel like (er)  the younger generations have a (er) generally higher level of distrust towards anything (er) so they just believe things less in general (er) they tend to be much more cautious about what they what they take as true   thank you   right .  do you have   yes thank you I have a question .  please tell about process of (er) creating (er) question for your survey   (mhm) I feel like we simply (em)… tried to divulge (er) a certain list of the things that would be most important to (er) ask about to (er) find out people's opinions on and then (er) we .. took these questions that we had come up with and (er) made (er) google forms questionnaire and distributed it on (er) through social media to (er) in a kind of snowball method as well like with the first presentation we had today   okay . thank you   thank you 









 

