 well the next speaker  is  (uhu) yes ok  here and the topic is social advertising in Russia and in the USA an interesting topic comparising I think of that well please  you are welcome 
 ok . you can see (em) 
 it’s ok can you start slideshow can you try to open (em) well slideshow and the first slide .. 
 so my name is  I am a student  of the tenth grade today I’m going to present a work and the topic is social advertising in Russia and the USA  and technological progress  that have significantly facilitated our existence and our life the  of advertising which is presented customers is quite important the relevance of this topic is obvious it is difficult to imagine the modern world without advertising however the there are other things which need  good solving problems in society . the aim of the work is to study the impact of social advertising on modern society in Russia and the USA . hypothethis I assume that social advertising even negative can help promote values fight acute problems and change the opinion of society on any topic 
 (em)  sorry for interrupting are you changing slides 
 yes  
 well let’s try once again . well click on . well maybe once again yes and presentation itself well .. ok let’s do it like this . well continue now when we have this yeah ok 
 (em) the object of the study and the subject of the study you can see on the slide . and research methods you can see on the slide . (em) what is social advertising social advertising is a type of non-commercial advertising aimed at changing patterns of social behavior and drawing attention to the problems of society . (em) the functions of advertising are are to provide customers with the information about goods and services to various information aims  . (em) officially the history of social advertising in the USA begins with the beginning of the twentieth century during the first world war the american governmant conducted  competent work with the population by means of propaganda one of the first bright episodes in the history of social advertising is the America recreating poster I want you for the US army which appeared in the United States during the first world war (em) one of the first social advertisements in the USSR is the world famous propaganda posters of the twenties to forties have you signed up as a volunteer and the motherland is calling . dobroshrift is a project that has become the largest social advertising in Russia in twenty nineteen for the world cerebral palsy day a special font was created each letter of which was written by one of the thirty three children with cerebral palsy within a few days the project dobroshrift  hundreds of companies changed logos and used dobroshrift in their communication . and on the project website everyone who download the font make a donation buy a hoodie with an inscription printed (um) dobroshrift and . (em) with the stories of thirty three children who stood behind thirty three letters of Russian alphabet . (em) if we cosi- considered the criteria for the communicative effectiveness of social advertising we can distinguish the following focus on one idea clear target audience clarity memorability persuasiveness motivating ability . we interviewed nine  people and found out that few respondents know about the history of social advertising in Russia and in the USA . none of the respondents responded  negatively to the questions about their attitude to advertising more of the respondents were opposed to advertising . we have created the social advertisement that can be used on the billboard of the town we believe that in winter people should be especially careful on the roads and remember the rules of the road . it is necessary to care of the road safety not only on the streets of the town but also within its boundaries . (um) the practical significance of the work lies in the fact that the developed recommendations for creating social advertising can be used in social science, computer science and for a model for creating social advertising for schools educational institutions and city streets my hypothesis was confirmed and the aim was achieved . (em) thank you for your attention 
 well thank you  you can stop your presentation yeah well thank you well you are welcome your questions . ok  please  
 thank you  I’d like to have I d like to ask you a couple of questions okay first of all just for clarification how many people were interviewed in your study 
 I interviewed thirty people 
 okay thanks and maybe it was just my impression maybe especially in the view of the world events but it was kind of (em) . you had two examples of social advertisements from the Russian side and from the USA side and I was just wondering are there some differences between advertising in these countries and the second question is just why these two countries were selected maybe there are some . special cases (em) of social advertisements in Africa or in Asia or in South America you would like also to tell us about 
 sorry can you repeat please I can’t hear 
 my question is (em) what are the differences between social advertisements in Russia and United States because you presented the two examples of these two countries and (em) are there any other countries that have interesting cases of social advertisements that are different from the examples that you have shown us 
 yes why have you chosen Russia and the USA 
 because (em) first of all I like English lessons in my school and (em) I had . (em) so . at school I did a project when I think what (em) about what talk so I think about my future 
 are you going to continue the study in the future 
 yeah and I thought about advertisement so (em) so many teenagers want to visit America and something countries and in my opinion I think they should know about Russian 
 okay  I think it is interesting to compare two huge powers well two huge countries well 
 this is interesting to know Russian advertisement and American advertisement actually 
 uhu okay and  well welcome 
 very nice presentation my question is so you mentioned you showed those posters of advertising from war times and I’m more familiar with the USA advertising of course and it’s history so to you in those times of war the advertising gets a little more controversial if you look back after the war so to you what is the . what is the distinction what is the difference between something that is simply social advertising and something that is propaganda  
 (em) 
 are you familiar with the word propaganda 
 how can we understand well the advertisement is the social advertising and propaganda it's said there is we’ve got a lot of propaganda in our world nowadays well I think all people agree in all countries in the USA Great Britain in Russia well all countries now and in the past had a lot of propaganda well how can we distinguish propaganda and social advertising 
 I think (em) when advertisement begins  it was like propaganda (em) in the past yeah and (em) I think this is connects maybe propaganda and social advertising because when in the past people so (em) . 
 well  I think well it’s only my opinion I think social advertising can be quite useful well for society for people against smoking for example no smoking and propaganda well it’s seems to me it’s quite negative of course maybe it’s good for countries but in general negative so if we’ve got your study I think it’s like recommendation to distinguish yeah two things and perhaps to analyse positive aspects of social advertising and negative aspects of propaganda okay 
 okay 
 well thank you  a very interesting topic we can talk a lot of time and discussing different aspects of advertising but we’ve got some time limit so 
 thank you for your questions 
