can you see my screen . so then hello dear speakers and panel . I would like to present you my work comparative analysis of catalase activity in tissues of different fish species . (um) It is known that enzymes play a crucial role in the regulation of chemical reactions of metabolism . enzymes are found in all living creatures from small microorganisms too big mammals . various researchers conducted in different countries over the past decades confirm us that one of the causes of pathological changes in living organisms is the excessive accumulation of oxygen free radicals and reactive oxygen species such as for example . high (um) . hydrogen peroxide . which leads to oxidative stress . oxidative stress is a condition caused by excessive formation of reactive oxygen species in some organisms . (uh) the effect of reactive oxygen species on the functional activity of cells is twofold . (uh) normally R O S. Are involved in the metabolism of the structural components of cell membranes proteins lipids and carbohydrates . but when there is an excess of ROS proteins lipids and carbohydrates and  acids um as well as cellular structures are being destroyed . (uh) this situation has serious health consequences for human beings as well such as skin aging increased risk of cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases and in general cell damage and some traumatic brain lesions and different mental issues and addictions are also associated with oxidative stress. Uh but during the evolution of organisms in order to protect ourselves from oxidative stress we have developed a variety of different protective mechanisms in form of antioxidant system . (um) . the antioxidant system consists of such low molecular weight components as vitamin A and E . and such enzymes as catalase peroxides and many others . (um) on this slide you can see the purpose and some goals of my (um) work . besides . we have assumed that in pike as an inactive predator catalase can manifest greater activity than in  or in white fish . that was our hypothesis. Um So talking about catalase (uh) . you may wonder what is catalase catalase is a enzyme that catalyzes is the composition of hydrogen peroxide into water and molecular oxygen . (um) . despite the fact that hydrogen peroxide is a product of many normal metabolic processes (uh) . it is not harmless to the body in order to prevent the destruction of cells and tissues hydrogen peroxide must be quickly converted into another substance which will be less dangerous for the body . this is the biological task of the enzyme catalase . catalase is one of the fastest enzymes and only one its molecule is capable of converting millions of hydrogen peroxide molecules (uh) . into water and oxygen in a second . the reaction takes place in two steps which you can see on the slide . (uh) . the activity of catalase depends on many factors . (uh) the dependence of this indicator on the age of the body was revealed . so in younger tissues the catalase is more active than in old ones . besides if there are some cancerous growths in the body the decrease in the activity of catalase in the liver and kidneys can be also detected . moreover . there is a correlation between the size and speed of growth of the tumors and the degree of reduction of catalase activity in the liver . (um) . there are lots of different methods for determining catalase activity . (um) they can be based on their registration of the formed oxygen during the reaction . they manometric and polographic methods . (uh) they can also be based on concentration of on the currents on the measurements of current concentration of hydrogen peroxide . it is spectrophotometry . and they can be based on (uh) . measurements of residual concentration of hydrogen peroxide . they are iodometric method and permanganate metric and permanganate metric method . (um) in my work in our work we have studied three fish species belonging to different links of (uh) . food chain pike predator and vendors and whitefish consuming mainly small organisms in the water bottom invertebrates and small fish . the fish was caught in lake Onega and the fall of twenty nineteen and immediate after the capture . the fish was frozen until the analysis (um) . before the analysis the analysis the fish was thought and (uh) . samples of liver were taken with a scalpel and with the scalpel and tweezers . (uh) two samples from each fish . we have taken two samples from each fish in order to get more reliable results . (um) weight was carried out in plastic containers . namely (uh) test tubes for  type gentrification and after weighing (um) . the homogenization and  were carried out . you can see the test tubes right here . yeah (um) in the resulting  the catalase activity and the concentration of the proteins were detained were determined by the Bradford methods . since the activity of enzymes is usually recalculated by protein concentration . therefore we needed to calculate the concentration of the proteins . (um) And the most common spectrophotometric method for determining protein concentration is the Bradford method . and you can see Marion Bradford who developed this method (um) . in order to determine the concentration of soluble protein . it was necessary to construct calibration . charged calibration charge based on standard solutions . using the collaboration tool graph and the equation of the resulting straight line . we calculated the protein concentration in tissues with allowance for delusion delusion . (um) . yeah . you can see how we did it and it's like (um) and catalase activity was determined by the optical density drop solution on the spectrophotometer which you can see on the slide . (um) after that . the results were substituted into the equation for calculating the activity . the activity of the enzyme . you can see the equation on the side too . (um) so our results uh you can see on the slide um the concentration of the protein was the highest in pikes liver and the lowest in  liver. (uh) we have predicted so to say this results but as for the activity of catalase. (um) it was the highest in  liver and the lowest in pike's liver . so our hypothesis was not confirmed . (um) so as we can see here the activity of catalase differs in fish of different species . therefore this indicator can be called . can show species specificity . (um) and as we have found out that (uh) the catalase activity is the highest in the liver of the vendors and you can see the results right here like numbers . (um) we suppose that this may mean that a more active utilization of hydrogen peroxide is happening in  liver . and most likely such differences are related to the peculiarities of  habitats and type of nutrition because vendors mainly lives on the surface of water bodies while the white fish lives in the deep (uh) . in the deep layers of the water and pike in the water column  even have  is even have a special upper mouth for feeding on the surface . (uh) so we made a conclusion that the activity of the enzyme catalase depends on the ecological group of the species . and I wanted to add that (um) . changes of the activity of catalase can help us to identify damages in the of the ecosystem in the early stages . and we would with help of this (um) with this with the help of (uh) . finding out what's the activity of catalase we can create an early warning system which I guess can be helpful for the environment . (uh) . and thank you for your attention
(uh) my question . it would be the following . okay we can test uh like pro ecology by (uh) as far as I got by measuring catalase in the livers of fishes . but my question would be can be tests or maybe these methods already exist . can we test our health our own level of oxidative stress by similar methods?
(um) yeah . I guess that's possible as we also have this enzyme  . (um) . and it's also operating in our organisms . so (um) . I guess there are some special ways to test the activity of your enzymes in your own body . (um) I guess it's more connected with the medicine and (um) . I'm not sure if it is possible right now but I guess um uh if we can test our D N A and so on we can test the activity of different enzymes in our body to and if catalase is showing low activity in your liver for example or kidneys I guess you should go to the doctor to other doctors and test yourself (um) . for having different tumors maybe or something like that yeah . I guess you can be relevant yeah
what are the perspectives of your study?
(um) . I guess I can continue my study by testing more different fishes and maybe finding out more (uh) . correlation of the activity of this enzyme (um) . with different things (uh) . and I guess I can continue my study by (um) creating this early warning system and maybe (um) . working with the university together to (uh) . make it (uh) . more practical to to people that are not connected with the science and our like . don't know much about catalase . but (um) I can (uh) . with the help of the university I can (um) . help our the environment of our region by continuing this work I guess
