 and now (eh) I think we are ready to proceed to our next speaker to our next presentation to be given by (eh)  . who is going to give (eh) the micro . macro sorry . macroanalysis of Mark Zuckerberg's model of the metaverse . (eh)   
 good afternoon 
 so . yes . you can begin 
 I want to tell you about my project (eh) the macrodynamic analysis of the Zuckerberg's metaverse . no one can either confirm or refute the hypothesis . that we have all been living in the digital universe for a long time . since the days of the matrix . this ideas have delighted and thrilled mankinds throughout the world .  it's only the now the virtual world has been officially declared as a space for life . it was Mark Zuckerberg who has claimed its among others . ladies and gentlemen . welcome to the metaverse . metaverse is a new space with its inhabitants . principles and shared values . but when and how will it be able to start functioning . why isn't it working now . to answer these questions we conducted a macrodynamic analysis of Mark Zuckerberg`s metaverse model . the purpose of our research is to predict the possibility of the extents of the metaverse as a social world . to do this . we have identified the features of sh of social macrodynamic processes in the metaverse that are similar to the characteristics of the real world . Emile Durkheim in his book . sociology its subject matters and purpose . identifies three interrelated . microdynamic processes . that form society . the process increments . (eh) it is a process of population concentration . the differentiation the process of deviding phenomena and groups into a constitute parts according to certain characteristics . and the integration . the process of unification and convergence .. in order to function properly all these processes should be interconnected . to do this . users of the metaverse . must at least compete for resources . interact with each other . form subgroups and mobilise power . let us focus on these processes particularly . (eh) the process of increments is likely to be done by using Facebook . Instagram . WhatsApp . and various internet platforms . alike the real worlds . the population of the metaverse doesn't depends on the . nature of population growth . but separator on the technological worldview of the citizens . overall well-being . and the quality of the internet connection in their area . the differentiation process . divides users into separate groups . gamers . businessmens . programmers . and buyers form their own subgroups . which are more divided by professional and personal skills . and interests so the integration process . (eh) depends on the ability of subgroups . to compete for resources . and mobilize power . but at this stage of the development  . the metaverse cannot offer a resource that users can fight for (eh) . this . there is no competition for resources . there is no integration process . what's another way . while the subgroups in the ritual social worlds have nothing to share . they don't make unions and (eh) .. they don't make unions ... there is direct waste to consolidate and extends in a ideological and physical space . speaking about cryptocurrency for an instance . any investor (eh) can invest (eh). can create its own vision of cryptocurrency and destroy it anytime (eh) . thus the level of trust . in the virtual worlds is not so high that users rush to accumulate virtual resources .. (eh) however we predict an increase . the level of trust in the metaverse . (eh) . because (eh) people can (eh) believe in their close companions and friends .. (eh) it can be concluded that due to the low solidarity . the lack of the mobilization of power . and competition for resources .  Zuckerberg's metaverse model cannot yet be called a social world . (eh) since the connection between macrodynamic processes is broken . in addition . the process of integration . of subgroups in the social world is always associated with . symbolic communication and a single ideology . otherwise individuals have nothing to unite for . nowadays . only a few people know about the metaverse . even though investors are ready to invest millions of dollars in this new space . (eh) . we may suggest . (eh) . as a huge technological progress is waiting for us soon . the metaverse is likely to be our inevitable future . with it helps humanity will move to a new stage of evolution . thank you for your attention . that's all 
 thank you  for this great . talk about (eh) metaverse . so you said that only . a few people . know about metaverse today looks like . I'm not among them . so this is why . I have some questions . (eh) well speaking about metaverse being the inevitable future of the humankind . could you please just . name some potential applications . of this technology 
 (eh) the metaverse is a new space . and (eh) for (eh) . this space this space can function with (eh) technological progress . and (eh) for this (eh) different companies must at least (eh) to unite and . (eh) expands our technological knowledges together 
 yes . and me . as . like . an ordinary . person . how can I benefit from this technology 
 (eh) benefits of technologies 
 me . as . like . as a university teacher for example . how can it benefit from it 
 (eh) you can (eh) communicate with the students from different countries by galagramms . or (eh) use special glasses for (eh) see the more area . and you can see (eh) a whole classroom with classmates and interact 
 sounds great . sounds really great. thank you . thank you . well . please more questions  
 I have a question  
 okay 
  . your work is very interesting . and now I want to know what did your research give you exactly 
 (eh) I provide microsemic analysis . and (eh) it helps me to understands why the metaverse doesn't work now . (eh) I must admit that . I chose this topic for research . for my research due to . once I have played in one game . its name Detroit. and that game . (eh) has got a parts of the metaverse . it was very exciting for me . and interesting 
 thank you  
 thank you . more questions please 
 I can I .  how can you . (eh) how do you think (eh) what are the risks of the development of the metaverse 
 (eh) .. it's interesting to note that . if the metaverse can function properly . (eh) our real worlds . maybe . stop to . (eh) people stop to use real worlds . we need face-to-face conversation 
  your sound is (eh) off 
 yes .  is it . is it better now 
 better 
 okay 
 so . (eh) there are many risks . for example for . society . people needs a face-to-face conversation . and (eh) if we don't have a real conversation (eh) and . will spend more time in the metaverse . we just . lose our reality 
 I have a question for you  . really great job . I am wondering as the metaverse expands and becomes something that more people are familiar with . do you think that it will become something that governments care about and want to . have control in . or do you think it will be independent forever 
 speaking about governments . I (eh) didn't think about this . topic but I . wanted to say that the metaverse . must (eh) don't must to have governments . because if it has . it has got a government. it appears (eh) . new .. (mm) it's . it doesn't appear new platform for free . (eh) conversation and living . (eh) I believe that . governments . will not know about this new space 
 thank you  . thanks 

