 we're continuing the linguistic (eh) trend   can you see the screen   (eh) . not no it's yeah yeah we can right   ... (eh) so good afternoon everybody (eh) my name is  I am from Chaikovskii and I would like to present you my research on the British dialects (eh) as an introduction I would like to say that . English language is international and today every modern person needs to know at least the basics of it but English is different everywhere it especially concerns Great Britain where you will pass in your dialect every twenty kilometers and sometimes (eh) people from different parts of Britain can barely understand each other to say nothing of the students who do different audio tasks at school (eh) as you know these tasks are voiced by . people speaking different accents (eh) that's why we sometimes (eh) struggle so much . and I thought it would be useful to (eh) just compare the dialects find the similarities differences and specificities just to develop our listening skills and make that audio tasks easier for us . so my goal was to study and compare several British dialects (eh) my research . included several parts they were studying the concept of a dialect .studying the history of British dialects and then I made a research on several (eh) particular dialects that I've chosen (eh) you can see thier names . (eh) here . (eh) also you can see the map (eh) when .. you can see the area of the distribution (eh) for instance there are cockney, Cornwall  and others that I've chosen so what is a dialect the dialect is a form of language that people speak in some particular region and (eh) this form has its own (eh) grammar vocabulary and other specificities which sometimes can cause the troubles understanding them. British dialects can be divided into northern central southern eastern and western and it is estimated that there are about fifty dialects in Great Britain but I also have to say that .. there are little differences even in different towns ... (eh) so when I was studying (eh) I was completing the table (eh) where I . compared the area with distribution some phonetic and lexical specificities you can see a part of my table here (em) I just wrote the main features that I could find (eh) obviously I cannot tell you about each of the dialects and I would like to tell you about Cockney so Cockney dialects is spoken in central areas of London (eh) the word Cockney can be translated as cock's eggs (em) this term was used to (em) name .some underdeveloped eggs so people who lived in villages in London use that word to call (em) . the city workers who did not know the customs of the village and that's why Cockney used to consider to be many people even consider it to be (eh) some sort of a landmark or London just like double decker buses . as for the main features of Cockney (em) . they replace my with me (em) they often use ain't instead of am not is not and are not just like (em) . unintelligent Americans (erm) as for some phonetic features Cockney distorts many sounds (er) they pronounce th as f or v also often l (em) .. so they say for instance love instead of love (eh) and sometimes they skip sound h at the beginning of words the got 'orrible instead of horrible but the main and the most famous specificity of Cockney is the rhyming slang (eh) so they replace some parts of their speech with some words from idioms (em) for example phone rhymes with dog and bone so they might say wait a second my dog’s ringing meaning my phone is ringing or they say (eh) I've run out of bees and honey meaning money because money and honey just rythm it was also very interesting to me how well my classmates know and understand different British dialects that's why I conducted an experiment trying to figure that out . there were fifteen participants (em) this number is not really big but I have to say that many people refused to take part in the experiment because it wasn't just a quick simple survey it was something bigger and I asked them if they already know some British dialects than I gave them a video for each of the dialects and asks them to write down some particular words so I gave them sentences with gaps and they had to fill in the gaps and then I asked to share their impressions and here are some screens from the . videos that I showed them . so here are the results (em) . it turns out that half of my classmates did not know any British dialects and half of them already did which was which was quite quite surprising to me because before doing the research I did not know any (em) .. so here's the level of understanding of those Southern dialects according to my experiment you can see the exact percentage here .. (em) it turned out that Yorkshire was the most challenging one to understand (em) .. and the RP also known as Standard English was the easiest one for the majority of participants .. (eh) so I've made several conclusions first of all (eh) . the dialective differences in England are much more pronounced than in Russia in Russia the maximum differences that can possibly be is like different pronunciation of some vowels but in English you can sometimes barely .. catch a word (em) also it turned out that British dialects have many common features (em) .. as for the problem that I have identified it turned out that a lot of people really do face it so they struggle understanding people from different parts of the country (eh) that's why. I think my table would be really useful for them just to find out some main differences .. (em) and I should also say that studying dialects .is very interesting and fascinating and (em) I'm planning to continue doing that research at a higher level that was all thank you for your attention   thank you  (em) any questions ...  ...   right yeah so thank you for your paper . can we take a look at the bar chart one more time   (em) could you please repeat I just didn't catch this   yeah so it's probably my connection can we see the slide with the bar chart   (em) this one   yes this one .so. what what do these figures mean (eh) if you're saying that in Yorkshire corresponds to twenty seven percent could you please tell us what it means twenty seven percent of what  twenty seven percent of understanding and I just didn't include the explanation in my .. (em) presentation because it would take much time but now I can explain so. as I have already said I gave my classmates a text with some gaps and this text was just (eh) what was said in the videos and I asked my classmates to fill in the gaps . there were three gaps in each of the dialogues each of the videos and there were fifteen participants so . it makes (em) forty five possibly correct answers and I just counted the number of correct answers for instance I got twenty two and just twenty two to forty five gives about forty five percent so that's how I counted it and .. (eh) I think it's better than just (eh) subjective level   right yeah thank you so.. what is the importance of these figures . now that you know that among the people . with whom you talked well certain dialects . yield a better understanding than the others why does it matter or in what way does it does it matter   well it doesn't really matter I just wanted to show that some people struggle understanding different dialects that's why we need to like share this issue (em) .. and it was just something that was interesting to know   ok thank you I see thanks   I also got probably a couple of questions what was the principal (eh) of your choosing of these particular seven dialects . are you sure that you haven't left some one a couple of them important out   well .. (eh) I actually have to admit that I had to say England instead of Great Britain because they didn't really take Welsh or Irish I'm sorry for that and like I've chosen the dialects had like a little amount of common features just to show that we are extremely different from each other (eh) couple of them were also suggested to me by my teacher of Yorkshire and Cornish she said that this accent was the most challenging one for .. the majority of people and it was just interesting for me to find out what was so special about them   so that sounds a bit voluntaristic and random so in case you're doing the research and would like to continue that topic as you say probably needs some kind of more stable objective principle and for example the number of people who use these dialects .. and should probably include first those that are major are probably I don't know the territory that they cover maybe another one taken them out of this one was advising this one I like to move this one somewhere maybe that's not the kind of stable principal and one more thing you gave a definition kind of a definition of a dialect in the very beginning of your presentation and you in the very beginning of your presentation and you defined it as a theme that includes (eh) .. particular vocabulary particular grammar and you don't mention pronunciation here phonetics in the slide but it is kind of presupposed yeah   all right I think I just forgot to  yeah it's an essential feature of course and then for example when you speak about Cockney dialect you do not mention any grammatical features .. do they exist and if they don't can it be considered the dialect   (eh) I think it should be considered (eh) dialect (eh) even if Cockney doesn't have any grammatical features (eh) I believe it does it didn't really .. go very deep into that . so even if it doesn't have any special grammatical features (eh) they it means that they are just sort of normal and usual and just like in some other parts of Britain   again if we attempt to approach these things kind of scientifically academically in a research way yeah then that means that either your definition of Cockney as a dialect is wrong if it doesn't have grammatical features like any dialect should or the definition of a dialect is wrong and we shouldn't include grammar in that it's either one or the other way and you may choose one of the variants but you should stick to one principle then . yeah (mhm) if you're saying that a dog is an animal with this this and that feature and if one animal doesn't have that feature maybe that's not a dog how can you prove it (eh) and just for me personally which dialect Jamie Oliver is talking   Jamie Oliver   yeah because you showed him in the (eh) in the slide he was one of the one of the videos   the one who cooked   yeah yeah the cooker   (eh) if I'm not mistaken he speaks a very clear Estuary dialect   Estuary thank you ok and we're moving on to a very unusual (eh) presentation I hope which is a little bit different from everything else (eh)  you are welcome 
