 hello . my name is  today I will tell you about colour affection on people ..(em) I've chosen this topic because I'm fond of psychology ... I need to do following tasks … colour has always surround people in the past anything have remained their natural form even then people understood that colour affected people so they paid a lot of money to print fabric or produce … if we were to look around us the lights is the draws our attention . things compete with each other to get attention for the event and that leads to a lot of development in colour psychology … for example take an airline whose passengers use only their planes .. (eh) the best safety record is not  is not as important as a color consultant (em) .. the correct colour of the cabin has reduced the passengers nervous tension so they can have a positive experience during the flight .. each person would prefer one or more colours depending on where they are … (em) have you ever noticed that the most business meetings attended by people in the car (eh) .. that because you are mostly driven by businessmen when you exit the parking lot from the office and see a lot of blue cars because the owners have a balanced character . in many cases a colour choice is based on unconscious processes reflection of one's personality … (em) so these are all of colour in people's lives of this is obvious famous psychologist Max Fisher balked at colour psychology .. (eh) he found that the perception of colour is individual the different allows us to know the subjective state with the colour test ... in general seven different coloured cards are available in the  from all of the  tests .. they have found in all seventy three college sports which consist of twenty tones and shades . They are fourty three different choices … (em) I used an express test of eight color cards through my research . I conducted a study among people   it consists of poll and two stage observation … the result of the poll you can see on this slide .. almost all teachers convinced that it influences mood .. among students (em) twenty seven percent do not think so … as we can see . also teacher are more  …(em) the first observation was about the colour associated with the mood it turns out that the mood of the students at the beginning of the week was associated with those brighter colours while at the end of the week it was associated with darker colours .. the teachers have the opposite effect .. (em) the second observasion was the choice of colour on that particular day of the week and one interesting thing came out .. students attributed the colour to the day of the week .. at the beginning of the week they prefer dark colours and at the end of the week they prefer lighter colours the teachers did not tie the colour of the clauses of the week . to  protested for observation analysis .. they can see a clear difference between students teachers and the mood of different days of the week as well as the choice of clothes … it can be concluded more people do not associate with their mood means and choice of colour of causes and experienced more varied emotions by the end of the week .. in contrast adults try to manage their mood with the colour of their clothes (eh)… the reason they chose not to speak of our character but also able to influences our mood and energy especially at an older age … thank you for your attention and if you have any questions I'd be happy for answer   thank you so much . again I would like to  questions from the audience 
 actually I have a question . first of all thank you for your work it was really interesting to listen to you . I have a quiet cliché question but anyway . tell me please about your personal experience with colours (em) are you affected by colours what colours do you prefer to wear for example on clothes  (em) Ok … for example … I like white colour and when I wearing their clothes . (em) I feel good  right . well . any questions from the audience right   yes . thank you for such interesting topic and I think it`s very actual nowadays . can you tell please does a colour always (eh) … says the truth or no or we can be mistaken with the colour too  …(mm) colour (mm) … don`t say all true .. but help … it can help you … with (eh) people .. communication with people  thank you . I would have a question if you commit . my question is the following . what was your research hypothesis .. why did you ask this research question about colours and days of the week and the mood   (em) I've chosen this topic because my past topic was about .. how .. (mm) … what personal … preven is … what personal preven is can use (eh) on picture .. in picture  thank you













