hello everyone .  my name is  and I would like to present you my research work (eh) impressionism and Japanese engraving . what do this work tell you for those people who are not interested in art these words meaning nothing just like did it to me but it is long as I became more vare of the history part I found  something and coworking . two different directions two different countries cultures and centuries are considered to resemble . the relevance of this study rising in fact that there is no literature (eh) where this two directions have been studied in detail . the aim was to identify the distinctive pictures of engraving that lately become the foundation of the of impressionism . (em) to achieve the aim it was necessary to state objectives (eh) you can see them on the screen . (eh) my hypothesis  is that Japanese engraving giving in protest to the development of impressionism and ideological component but no more . so how it's all started . engravings appeared in the second century approximately with advent of foreign China . (eh) the most famous and declared shop type of xylography is ukiyo-e .. ukiyo (eh) literally translates (eh) the floating world and this is how  point would it word mean=meaning world of sorrow . in the Edo area  with advent of city works where kabuki theater uh for each (eh) the term was interpreted . (em) it can't be understood as the world of floating pleasures the word e means picture therefore (em) the art ukiyo-e (em) reflects the everyday life of the period . with the culture integration in the middle of nineteen century Japan opened the doors for foreigners up to formals three centuries and the way of Japanese works of art hit Paris . everyone could have a great collection of Japanese art due to its cheapness . the Japanese were quite surprised when people from the West became to in to be interested in engravings although for the land of the rising Sun engravings were everyday objects not works of art the process of making engraving is very difficult .. (eh) and mainly three people are involved . the artist and engraver and printer . the artists made a court of drawing in on rice paper . the engraver . the cut the board with outlined print from the drawing . the printer selected colors and tones and make prints . moreover a separate board was needed for each color and the board had to have different qualities depending on their purpose . as for the impressionism there were not successful at that time because the official saloon was very strict about .. the works that were not subject to the basics of fine art . that is why impressionists decided to arrange their own exhibition (eh) which was held in eighteen seventy four in the studio of the photographer and art . Monet presenting the painting impression the rising Sun German list with lay wanted to ironise about Mane's tiles it is felt tone of his papers and his name of the painting impression in a very sarcastic way and that is how the name of the direction was born .. anyway (em) in order to understand what was . the contribution of Japanese art (eh) . we need to analyse several paintings in very strong the gallery of many as things my work is specified and I post of the impressionists .. in the presented (eh) engraving . (eh) we can (eh) see (eh) . that there is not clearly expressed (eh) perspective of the drawing this is due to the complicated three step of process of creating an engraving . in fine art perspective was enormously important that is why for Europeans (eh) . this feature was quite strange . in this painting of Claude Manet we can see the same phenomenon . the foreground is very close . the chair is deprived . of the nature position of component parts and the background is blurred ... this slide shows the following similarities . first the cliffs here and here .. (em) are depicted superficially without essence of depth volume and height .  secondly the background is depicted as the significant distance part from the foreground which is little unrealistic ... the first paint that catches our eye is a composition of division of the painting into three parts . the created parts . this feature was in contract very open before the impressionist so we can not similarly talk as the (eh) instinctive feature the paintings are full (eh) of movement and energy and surprisingly they all resemble but it chair (eh) paintings pane .. however both paintings depict ordinary life that there are no religious or such things ... summing up each would be noted there are many similarities between Japanese engraving and impressionism . we supposed the statement that impressionism would not have a period without engraving is not . correct because impressionists always wanted to break the rules the (em) receipt Japanese traditions gave us confidence knowing way of seeing . the impressionist experimented they were inspired by the engraving .. but created something new that makes us sufficient life as a it is .. catch moments of happiness and beauty will follow our dreams . my hypothesis was confirmed Japanese engraving had an impact on impressionists but it still was  the distinctive their actions and we should not forget about that thank you for your attention


thank you  is anybody  something would like to ask a question . (erm) we actually have questions with  because we are really interested in what you  not because we must ask them . it comes naturally . when you talking about the influence you take (eh) two big phenomena yeah . impressionism as something . so can you particularly  what exactly . (eh) Japanese engravings influenced in impressionism


firstly (eh) the main feature is the depiction of every day life in before art the fine arts are always about religion things or state things like here is the queen then you can see her and (eh) up to Japanese engraving impressionists started to depict (em) ordinary people in their ordinary lives and it was (eh) more about life itself than something (eh) . unbelievable and not .. relevant for everyone


then you admit how tradition of European nineteen century painting . which was large part realist and which depicted a lot of common people so it was very typical of European painting in itself


(em)... I would not say that . because (eh) still the majority of paintings were (em) held in that fine arts (eh) characteristics and (eh) what about the way of writing (eh) but depicting (eh) the scenes (eh) impressionists (eh) were working outdoors which was not typical for that time it was something like  and artist used to (eh) ... (eh) paint (eh) in (eh) .. (eh) in their studios and


and did Japanese masters paint planer


(eh) yes planer that is right


really


no not classical ones but impressionism I mean them


I am talking about the Japanese


(eh) no because it is really hard process three people are involved and (eh)


so then that is not influencing I mean yeah what we talking about depicting nature as seen with the naked eye and the open air is not the influence from Japanese engravings right


open area not but depicting ordinary people working in life yes


yeah okay that what you mentioned .. so I mean your kind of (em) .. argument is failed the influence of the subject matter of paintings what is depicted yeah and the another side is how they did that 


yeah (eh) I meant that ... Japanese engraving had influence on impressionism but in some internet sources (eh) . they write something like impressionism would not ever happen without engraving and I wanted to say that this is not right and impressionism is (em) ... is (eh) really great style itself that is why we can not saying in this way

thank you
