our next participant (em) we have two participants actually that is  and  with the report called the art of pharmaceutical naming basic principles and customers’ opinion
well hello everyone my is 
and my name is 
we are students from perm state pharmaceutical academy and we want to present our work the art of pharmaceutical naming basic principles and customersэ opinion
we live in  don’t we
 as one famous American poet once noticed life is pharmaceutical from head to  . All his words were decided to present a  devoted to pharmaceutical drug nomination
this topic is relevant because we future pharmacists should be aware of the main principles of drug naming and the impact of pharmaceutical drug names on customers’ intentions to buy them
as you can see from the slide our report has the following objectives . to summarize general information about drug n= drug naming (em) to figure out the main principles of giving trade names to medicine and to review the result of our own survey
so it's well known that for any pharmacy  customer, the name of drug is an important source of primary information about it . Many drugs have two names . an international non-proprietary name and a trade name . the international non-proprietary name is used to identify pharmaceutical substance or active ingredient it is scientific and quite often difficult to pronounce and to memorize . trade name is what we truly remember  it is a field where the art of pharmaceutical language starts to blossom
a pharmaceutical company can give its medicine a trade name based on a set of rules established by the certain state authorities . as we have found out the perfect name should fit the following criteria . the name cannot sound or look like another drug product
this is for example true about Xanax and  Actually medical error is one  causes of the  heart disease and 
also the name cannot make any medical claims  be only promotional and the name cannot serve to broaden education minimize the risk or mislead
after all the name should be bright and appealing to a customer
A  name blended from many languages based on four distinct donations. visuality melodic ant rest mobile velocity and language in naturality
There are also different things to be mentioned a lapis x y z often can be great names because they can attract high tech science fiction saluting for example Clerics Styrene Zosyn . points would be in a man crew as a way to create Desoptesal (erm). swing seasonal but feel that was SJW as a types awarded because they are difficult to pronounce and need  images . and some hard to pronounce trade names telling my gin that your 
Isotuclone
Idernuzelubap
Levitirocipam
and 
While pronouncing such . names a famous English joke comes to mind and  with his prescription
oh . I’ve never thought about it . and (erm) two famous and very successful examples of drug drugs drug names are Aspirin and Viagra
speaking about Aspirin it is clear that a stands for aether . s stands for spirtzer and in is a popular suffix for drugs of those day days easy to pronounce and remember isn’t it
of course
and the name Viagra was given to Pfizer’s blockbuster product after the work with urologists . most patients visualized a strong stream when describing when describing the condition . so the name Viagra was (erm) created through through . melding the words vigorous and Niagara 
nowadays there is there are two main approaches to drug names heuristic and  . according to the heuristic approach in relationship more positive broad complex drug names in contrast  suggest the same effect for voicing the drug names
to assess the reliability of this  we conducted a questionnaire with follow up interviews among 100 young people aged from eighteen to twenty-five from Perm . the respondents were given the list of drugs names that you can see on the slide and they were asked about the ones they prefer to buy
about fifty percent of the respondents choice highly conventional popular drug names with oblique . (em) well about ten percent voting for trade name containing chemical composition in barest sence . the remaining forty percent would choose the name implying drug’s usage but  at the same time generally complex drug names are seen as more hazardous than simple drug names which negatively influenced, but really was fine
Indeed as Charlie  once noticed in modern medicine we have a name for everything but a cure for nothing
 want to emphasize once again that in a lot of instances connected with drug naming especially when commercial context is linked with customers ecology 
thank you for your attention any questions are welcome
thank you girls . so who one will ask them questions
I have one question
Yes
do I understand you right that (em) you asked (em) some participants of the survey (em) what (em) kind of (em) drug would they buy according to their name or what do they usually buy
Thank you for your question  yes .. yes
No that is part of the question I want to understand whether I understand right
yes . you understand right
so what do you usually buy according to the name
no what would you choose
huh what would you choose
yes
and (em) don’t you think the choice is . connected not only with the name of the drug but with its (em) effectiveness
properties of this drug
yes we are a= we are agree because (erm) some people buy drugs looking at their name. but some people buy drugs looking at their properties .because (em) they think they know the properties of this drug and they buy them . (em) usually these drugs are named by (em) INMM this chemical (em) containing chemical composition but (em) usually pe= people buy drugs (em).. that you can see in advertisement for example on TV .for example (em) strepsils and so
do you think this is a good way to name drugs
trade name (em) or mis= chemical composition
no you know which one do you think is better
We think that (em) it is better to name drugs (em) like trade names like Strepsils because it is (em) easy to pronounce and remember because its containing (em).. needed letters in this name so . we think that (em). the trade name is. (em) better for people

but for pharmacists because we are ph= future pharmacists it is better 
we prefer to choose (em) ..  for chemical na= names containing chemical composition properties maybe because we can understand (em) where its from or what its for and we can understand action with 
Do you think that there is any there are any correlations or connections between the price of the product and its name
yes thank you for your question yes of course (em) there are there is connection the price and name because for example (em) strepsils or viks or  has higher price for example as we buy another product analog Russian analog or another analog with another name not trade name and not so memorable
and with the  that .. its better to spend some money on creation names trade names than just  spends
and do you think that there is some connection between the name of a drug and its benefits like a drug with a famous or with a catchy name can heal you faster than the one with an unknown name
 thank you for your question well maybe may= maybe when people take the drug they think about it and they become (em) healthy more fa= faster 
is it 
yes 
thank you very much girls
