 and we now have only one report left . which will be presented by  . again . my apologies for possibly getting your name wrong . was it correct . the pronunciation of your name . good . so  . you are over to you now please . If you are ready to present .. your study findings 

 so . can you hear it well . and see it well 

 well . I don't know if everyone else can . on my screen I can only see a symbol .. and it also says your mic is off but that's probably technical issues on my end . what about the rest of the audience . can you all see  and hear her 

 yes . everything is okay . I see everything 

 okay . good good . okay . so please  

 okay . the theme of my research work is product placement as a variety of hidden advertising . mechanisms of influencing consumers' behaviour . so in the introduction I will tell you what companies look for new product placements (eh) new ways of influencing consumers . then I will explain what product placement is . and what types and models of product placements are identified . and finally I'll give you an overview of the result of my search work . so in two thousand and fourteen . Public Opinion Fund . conducted a survey . that revealed Russians are reluctant to watch television advertising . only fifty per cent watch out with sound . forty-two per cent forty of respondents reached another channel during advertising breaks . and twenty-eight per cent break away from TV for other things . and six per cent turn off the TV at all .. at the same time . a modern US becoming more sophisticated and competent which leads to an increase in the demand for advertising and decreasing advertising effectiveness . and so all  create the need to develop indirect but effective advertising vehicles . to promote brands . and one of such vehicles . is product placement . so what is product placement .. product placement is identified as the placement of product service or trademark in movies television radio programs newspapers magazines . on the internet and social media and so on . so usually .. there are three types of product placement are identified such as visual . auditory and kinesthetic . the visual type implies the perception of the band through visual images . the auditory type focuses on the perception who listening . and the kinesthetic type involves the direct use (eh) of the promoted product by an actor .  distinguish two more types of product placements such as end-to-end and reverse ones . the end-to-end assume that a promoted product (eh) becomes one of the heroes of the film in a storyline . for example . the movie Taxi . which is . which is set around the . car of a band  . the reverse type of product placement is integration in which a brand is created specifically (eh) . for a particular movie and after a successful  . it appears in real life . for instance the brand of contextual Billy Wonka appeared after a successful remake of the film Charles' Chocolate Factory ... (eh) so modern researchers are trying to identify the communicative models of product placement . impact on viewers .  and in  research . two models have been identified . such as suggestive and socio-psychological . the suggestive model emphasizes the number of trademark impressions per movie footage and the duration of this footage . the context doesn't matter at all . within the framework of socio-psychological model the context plays a great role . since the advertised products . are tied to the images of characters . and (eh) the storyline of the film . so let's move on . in my research I conducted a comparative analysis and the empirical material was Russian foreign films such as Yolki Ironiya Sud'by Prodolzheniye . (eh) Dukhless Metro Lyod The Intern The Devil Wears Prada Bublebee The Big Shot and The Meg . so the presented material was analyzed according to the following criteria . first of all . it is (eh) the duration of product placements in the footage . secondly . share of product placement . (eh) thirdly . category of product placement . or service of product placement . and finally type and communicated models product placement . and there is also research conveyed that the total time of using product placement technology in Russian films is one thousand four hundered and . eighteen seconds . or four point three per cent . backing down to the following categories . cars two thousand (eh) two hundred and six . electronics two hundred and five . clothing shoes accessories two hundred . in forty films the total time of product placement is one thousand (eh) eight hundred and eighty-sixies seconds . and the most time falls on electronics . one thousand and five . clothing shoes accessories four hundred and six . cars (eh) two hundred and fifteen . the study revealed that the visual type of product placement in Russian films amounts to eight per cent and the kinesthetic type accounts for ninety-one per cent . in foreign films the visual type makes sixteen per cent and the auditory type and the kinestatic type accounts for six per cent and (eh) seventy-eight per cent respectively ... in Russian films the suggestive model of brand integration is used in ninety-five per cent of cases and the socio-psychological model is only in five per cent . in foreign films . eighty-six per cent of cases use the suggested model of brand integration and fourteen per cent are based on the socio-psychological model . so in order to identify the attitude of viewers to the hidden advertising in movies . a sociological survey was conducted . so the survey reviewed that the majority of respondents . namely thirty-three per cent pay attention to product placement in movies . twenty-nine per cent don't notice hidden advertising in movies at all . and only eight per cent don't think about this issue . at the same time . fifty-three per cent of respondents have a negative attitude to the use of hidden advertising in films . fourteen per cent like it in movies . thirty-three per cent of responders don't identify product brands and films as advertising vehicle . and (eh) according to the survey . forty-seven per cent of responses believe that advertising in films has an impact on their purchases .. forty-seven per cent of responders believe that hidden advertising doesn't have any impact on the choice and eight per cent remain neutral . so in conclusion . I like to say that the share of hidden advertising in the Russian films is less than in foreign films by one point one per cent which is four hundred seventy (eh) eight seconds .. in Russian foreign films . the kinesthetic type of product placement is used more often . in foreign films the auditory type of product placement is used in six cases .  in the Russian films of the auditory type was revealed . the use of suggestive model of brand integration reveals in both Russian and foreign films . which is ninety-five per cent and eighty-six per cent respectively . and the use of social psychological model of brand integration is five per cent in Russian steel productions and fourteen in foreign ones . so . the comparative analysis and sociological research prove . that product placement technology is an effective alternative to traditional advertising that has statistical algorithms for (eh) psychological impact on consumers .  so thank you for listening . if you have any questions  . please ask them now 

 thank you very much for your report .  and again . another hot topic . which seems to be a burning issue for quite a while now . so . any questions please .  

 that is so . so interesting . I just wonder how much time did you spend watching movies 

 to get your data . yeah.  

 okay . but (eh) yeah . stepping back to your research . I think that (eh) . it is just a remark . not the question really . but I think that it's very important to take into account that . for (eh) a lot of Russian movies product placement is the basic model of financing the movie .. so . the company starts shooting the movie only when they have several (eh) companies . which will (eh) .. give their products and (eh) finance the . the whole  . and . maybe that is why some movies represent so much product placement that you showed . (eh) my question (eh) by the way . is . why did you select these particular movies . not any others  

 (eh) . okay . first of all .. I choose . I have chosen those films because I take into account high rates from critics . high ratings . and (eh)  three hundred thounsand viewers in Russia . this is the criteria 

 okay . okay . thank you .  that's clear 

 thank you very much  for your question and thank you (eh)  for your answer . again . just one other quick question and I promise you it will be the last one from me (eh) .. looking into the future . how do you see . the prospects if any of your research .. so having researched all of those movies and analyzed how product placement is used in them . are you going to take your research further . from those points and maybe expand into other types of movies or . other countries of origin . where those movies are made . or maybe other types of advertising . so . the prospects of your research please 

 yes . actually . right now I'm working on my (eh) . research . and I ... the the theme of my research work is influences influences on social media . so . actually this is the same thing . (eh) bloggers or some influencers just post (eh) some products or .. trademarks . just put them put trademarks in the context . so . I think that is all connected 

 (eh) . okay . I see . well no doubt about it and once again thank you for throwing light on . such . an important and hot topic 

