 my name is  ..  I'm a student of  and I’m gonna present my work (er) sound card data interface data transfer system based on the capabilities of the PC sound card .. so . here we go .. (er) today there are no emergency data transmission systems that can be provided without additional equipment … (er) internet and . cellular communications must be maintained .. what if we created data transmission interface that can receive digital information via radio at a distance of tens of kilometres .. using just a computer sound card … the main idea of the project is quite simple . to use the sound card as a tool for complex analysis of audio data .. the Microsoft Visual Studio twenty nineteen environment was chosen as the main product for development … first . we need to implement an audio input and output port .. for this I used the free proprietary library and audio … certain protocols have been developed to encode the binary of digital data .. the data is presented with a sound wave of a special form as follows .. each bit is encoded with a  half-cycle of different amplitudes .. the amplitude of one twice the amplitude of zero .. however . in this case . we have a continuous dataset . and in the event the loads of at least one bit will lose the integrity of the entire stream .. to solve this problem . we can divide the entire datastream into blocks of equal size .. we select each block with special half periods with the amplitude that is twice of one amplitude  .. now . we need to decide on the coding density that determines the data transfer rate .. the sending rate of most sound cards doesn't exceed ninety-six kilohertz .. but it was guided by a frequency of fourty-eight  kilohertz .. these and those restrictions on a maximum possible speed determine by the signal carrier frequency . which depends on the modulation component …  as practice shows . using another signal we can relay the density of one point two one point four kilobytes per second .. at the corresponding carrier frequency of ten kilohertz which lies in the ratio of audible frequencies as well .. these densities are sufficient for high-speed text transmission . digital sound in conversations . for example . or images and files .. from the conditions of imp= of imperfection of analogue carriers . information channels . the method of redundant noise correcting encoding was applied . the hand code . the principle is simple . additional check bits are added to each data of block . which will allow us to check the received blocks for errors . the hamming code allow us to correct one single error in each data block and detect unfixable ones ... to convert text .. (er) please.  excuse me .. to convert text to sound each symbol is encoded with a specific set of bits .. the data size for one symbol is eight bits . but the hamming code expands it to twelve ..  due to existing text encoding use dynamic data density per symbol . I created my own symbol libraries .. the volume of one symbol library is approximately two hundred symbols .. for writing punctuation marks and numbers have been allocated universal byte values which cannot be found in other libraries .. russian and english symbolic libraries were also made .. switching between libraries has made by using a special  eight bit markers . and marker is an unique data block that doesn't use a hamming code .. instead . it's duplicated several times in the datastream being in the place where another library needs to be included .. the eight bit marker identifies the symbol library index … for digital file encoding . the file is divided into thirty two sections . clusters . the information about the file required for the coding is placed in a header .. a special text area encoded according to the principle described above .. the header contains the file properties and list of hash sums of clusters . after the header there is a stream of file data .. the file data block contains thirty-two bits of useful information . and its expanded up to forty-eight by the hamming code .. dividing the file into sections provides the ability to check each of thirty-two clusters by hash sums . and in a case of errors . the integrity of the file won't be lost . to highlight the file error separated from the file stream as well as . switch to the coder to receive file data eight bit markers are used .. the  of which are reserved from the symbol library .. there are also some thirty-two bit markers …  the program consists of a few classes . specially designed for specific tests .. the main class includes a graphical interface for the main program window for user interaction and the namespace for handling events .. this is where the man= the main processes of working with a sound card take place .. data encoding into a wave is realised through working with wave files .. their structure is very simple and represents a set of samples . points than form a sound wave .. therefore the encoding process itself is directly a bit painting .. an audio library is one main thing .. it gets the bytes from the sound card that define the samples … next . the bytes combined into samples are sent for the next processing .. all processing stages are running independently .. the next process is simple  extraction .. the half periods of the sound wave intersect the horizontal axis of signal polarity ..  and it’s quite easy to  track the intersection . actually .. the clipped sections of the wave are written to the buffer .. then the maximum value of the sample is calculated . corresponding to the amplitude of the half-period . half timed amplitudes are buffered also ..  the main task of the decoder is to find a set of amplitudes that correspond to the data block … there is a synchronization algorithm for this .. the amplitudes are buffered so . that no more than one  data block can be stored in the buffer .. that is no more than two pulses .. it is quite simple to determine the pulse indexes .. these are the first and second maximum amplitudes in the buffer .. and the amplitude indexes between them are the data block .. to select text data a buffer with sixteen amplitudes is used .. and for file data sixty-four .. next . the maximum value in the amplitude buffer of the data block is calculated corresponding to the amplitude of one .. the value is taken as a constant . is compared with a remaining amplitude and based in the difference .. a conclusion is issued zero or one 
 please mind the timing 
 okay . additionally two algorithms have been developed to improve the stability of decoding .. the single linearization and smoothing .. linearization flattens the amplitudes with the power polynomial .. and smoothing averages the amplitudes spread within one bit ... the program has a variety of debugging . and analysis tools .. such as percentage signal qualities statistics .. decoded data field as called squares .. wave line graph . and debug logging interface .. it … can also decode real-time mp3 stream and jpeg image stream … (em) so . however I've developed an interface that is able not only to turn the sound card into a data . transfer port . but also to give that second life to (em) old analogue media .. digital data storage .. you know … thanks for attention  
 okay thank you very much indeed .. something highly advanced . and . technical . but I’m sure there are technically-advanced people amongst our audience .  but first and foremost  please . do you have any questions to the speaker 
 thank you very much .. (em) I cannot ask anything .. about this technical part .. but as a person from management and economics I would like to ask you about the economic or managerial application of your study .. how can we managers apply this (er)  information in our (er) daily environment 
 (em) .. so . firstly you are gonna know that no additional costs needed . and this can be used to implement .. cheap data transmission systems and .. can give a second life for old storages like  .. you know .. it is possible to transmit data using any phone or radio transmitter .. for example .. and you can .. just put the radio on to the computer and microphone and put on you sound card to transmit something you gonna have a radio transmitter . and .. you need to connect into this whole curb line outdoor  .. just … yeah  
 thank you (em)  any other questions please .. may I ask you one more question apparently also economics-related ... do you believe such systems are cost-effective  
 yes . I= I’m going to have (em) an opinion about this . and … how I said .. this is ..very cheap .. and .. in emergency situations . you can just use your .. transmitters and radio .. to implement this features 
 that’s really valuable feature then . what you have described .. thank you any other questions from the audience .. please .. okay 
