so hello everyone . my name is  . I am a student of the first year with bachelor program economics and the topic of my work is happiness in economics a process of measurement and interpretation . so (er) I won’t ask you whether happy or not because this question is too private to be asked just out loud . (er) I will start right with a definition . so (er) happiness could be defined as an individual state of satisfaction with its own life circumstances positive assessment of reality around it and feeling of fullness of life . (er) such definition allows us to interpret it from (er) the economic point of view both in micro and macro levels . (er) in the field of microeconomics . (er) it is . it could stand for a synonym (er) to the notion of utility (er) but unlike utility (er) it also allows us to (er) take a more comprehensive approach to study the non-price factors (er) of consumers choice . (er) more global interests (er) this happiness (er) those in the field of macroeconomics . ..(er) yes but it be so . .(er) one of the major issues of (er) macroeconomics is (er) the problem of (er) economic growth . (er) traditionally it is measured by the GDP GDP per capita and other performances of (er) syste= system of national accounts . (er) but this system is not perfect and it leaves a lot of (er) white points (er) which happiness is supposed to cover . (erm) already in nineteen fifty nine was was published the essay by (name of the author) (er) where was expressed a skepticism (er) to the (er) measuring (er) economic growth (er) according to the capacity.. (er) only. . so and only in seventies.. (er) there was studied (er) independent branch of economics economics of happiness . (er) the founding fathers of this (er) theory are first . (er) (name of the author) and (name of the author) with the latter name is connected (er) main stumbling block of the economics of happiness (er) Easterlin paradox as and also called (er) income happiness paradox . so omitting all the profound statistics speculations . (er) it could be expressed as the following . (er) the correlation between income and feeling of happiness in cross-sectional surveys . so that's (er) taken in a short period of time (er) shows (er) . a positive correlation among and within nations in different countries . (er) while in the long term surveys this correlation . is nil . (erm) so this ..(er) issue is.. still (er..) subject of many discussions . (er) I want to draw your attention . (er) this study was made in nineteen seventy four . (er) yes a breakthrough concept of interpreting the happiness income paradox was made by (er) ..(name of the author) with his post materialistic approach . this theory stands for the idea that the western societies are on their way (er) of transition from the (er) materialistic values of industrial society to new set of post materialistic (er) values . first of all when I say about the materialistic values (er) I mean that it is (er) financial welfare and personal security . (er) while the post materialistic values (er) are personal (er) self (er) expression and autonomy . (er) so these two theory based on two major hypotheses . (er) the first one is scarcity hyp= hypothesis hypothes= which implies that (er) a person (er) which (er) had experience which had ex= which has experienced all the hardships of scarcity (er) tends to estimate the material values more than post material one . (er) one more hypothesis is (er) the socialization . (er) and it involves (er) the following idea that (erm) .. during the active socialization time a person is (er) too (er) impressive for all the (er) life circumstances . and (er) if a person (er) had experienced (er) all the troubles of scarcity . (er) he will again attempt to (er).. estimate the (er) material needs the material goods (er) more throughout his life . so as we can see the second hypothesis is (er) more durable (er) in time . so (er) . and comparing these two approaches (er) I mean an economic and more cultural (er) which the Inglehart (er) theory is . (er) we can (er) draw the following conclusion . so here is the comparison of (er) percentage of materialistic and post materialistic values . (er) that were . that were established in the following countries (er) and the (er) practical indexes… that (er)… measures that measuring (er) the (er) .. human (er) welfare in general so here you can see the (er) . the contents of these (er) indexes . yeah they are (er) used as (er) … basic as a base for (er) recommendation by the UN . to the governments of different countries to improve their (er) social and (er) inner policy in general . so (er) coming back to the comparison . (er) we can draw the following conclusion . (er) there is a positive correlation (er) between high HDI index and the percentage of people who evaluate post materialistic values more . (er) HDI is considered to be (er) more relevant index has (er) as you can see here . (er) it involves (er) the inequality coefficients which (er) make it more just to measure in this way . (erm) yes . (er) as for HPI index which is (er) the youngest one . (er) there is.. (er) diversage ..(er) connected to Germany. . (er) it can be connected (er) with the (er) immigrants crisis which was (er) sharply escalated in twenty sixteen . so that is why there is (er) a gap . between (er) those data and this one . (er) so to conclude (er) I should say that despite huge degree of generalization and subjective nature of the subject of happiness of economics . (er) it's really helps to improve people's life (er) that we can . annually see in the UN and happy planet world happy report where the UN organization make an overview of the situation in world (er) of the welfare of people . so thank you for your attention and be happy . (er) now I’ll be very glad to answer your question ... questions . yeah
  thank you very much . this was a great presentation loved it . well as an expert in happiness tell me what is your recipe of happiness
actually it is too again it's too individual to be recommended anything
(mhm) . well can you give us a recipe of happiness . well for a state for a country how can we improve the index of happiness in the short term and in the long term
(er) actually it is impossible to do in a short time because (er) it involves a very (er) long period of influence . (er) and first of all that is a social policy . so improving the (er) financial well-being of population . secondly it is life expectancy . so it involves actually the health care services (er) the (er) environmental it is usually environment is usually separated from the .. what (er) what I am talking about . about the life expectancy (er) but it is also very important to protect the environment in order to have where to live yeah
yes I think it was very interesting this is a very interesting topic (um) would you say people as somebody else from outside of Russia . would you say people in Russia are happy 
according to center of  research no
no 
no
what do you think do you think your neighbors are happy
for some instances . I think . yeah . (er) personally I think (er) despite all this economical (er) speculations (er) I think that happiness a such doesn't exist it's (er) (er) just 
oh no don’t depress us
a very short feeling no you can enjoy your life be satisfied with your life but this (er) feeling of happiness when you are so inspired (er) it's just a game of your (er) endocrine system . (er) and maybe yeah cause (er) modern European culture (er) makes a great hype around the happiness and (er) actually frankly speaking (er) try to sell it (er) as a product
(mhm) . yeah . I can see that
like this . thank you
