well let’s imagine that we are all wearing pink glasses… okay.. good afternoon dear colleagues. I’m happy that I have an opportunity to share the results of my research with you.. today we will briefly cover the following questions.. we study a little bit more about fast-growing companies.. according to the theory. the outstanding growth depends on two types of factors. internal and external. what a huge surprise for managers right. but what we do not understand exactly is the nature of the  how do they really influence the outstanding growth... in several.. research papers (em) researches (eh) have divided all the factors into three types and nowadays the  one is innovation related factors. and it's likely to be so in the future. to understand theoretical background is very important for the understanding the model that we have created. (eh) now. I would like to tell you (em) my thoughts on how the approach have to be  because it has to be . well. we used to think of growing companies as the main contributors to (er) creation the workplaces and. an overwhelming majority of scholars has keeps these approach. but it is dated. we have heard the amazing presentation about the artificial intelligence the  (er) matters of employment is not suitable for the today situation in economy in a companies.. what is more important is that practicals significant is only (er) a question because the models are not applicable (er) terms of practice because they are overgeneralised and strictly limited like we are studying at the high tech companies operating on  market offering (er) financial. (eh) services. it is too narrow we can’t work with that. now let's move on to the research design. we have followed the four-step procedure. we can desk study using secondary data. and for the  research we have use the  of russian fast-growing companies. but later I would say  I would tell you how I will change this approach.. and why do we need to build all these models trying to create something  because the plethora of models have already been done and developed. and there are too major evidences for that.. first of all it's from a theory. the David  the father of fast-growing companies told they are extremely unstable their growth can be predicted. and it can’t be constant.. from the practice all the annual rankings are renewed by the seventy percent every year. what a surprising unbelievably number... now let's turn to the most  part of the research.the model we have have created internal. external and strategic now on the slide I presented the best. the dream of all managements  of the company.  company can operate on the market attractively using this (eh) using these strategic resources.  internal factors and external opportunities. now there are example is the passenger. the company which grows just because the market grows.  the markets  recession or maturity the company will stop growth and maybe even disappear... now the are type of conflict of company and complete  market  provides not a lot of the opportunities to develop. And a competitive advantage is not so stable and strong so that the company in order to sha it share in order to save and protect its (er) competitive position on the market. has to do a lot.. well there was one more profile that I can cannot  to that. and why the approach to has to be rethought is (er) due to this fact on (er) it is due to this fact also. We think that  this is either  fast-growing company or its so unique and strange hat we are not able to understand it right now. okay. let’s some of the model and how to work with it. . a manager need to take a question which I have in my back (er) back up slides if you are interested. there  just it.  and (eh ) and assess the company. then collo these curves of all three dimensions. he or she build a portrait of company and identify the point of possible growth. Everything is left is just take action.. I have mentioned that we need to develop the. (er) studies. and we see  avenues.  theoretical I have mentioned that we need to  rethink and update the approach. make it urgent. make it (er) competitive to the modern conditions. and as for the practical we need to push the boundaries  of the existing models try to understand how to make them not overgeneralized not too narrow but applicable for the practical purposes. the fast-growing companies are an extremely valuable asset of all the economies. hence making them grow not only fast but sustainable will allow our country (er) and will influence positively countries’ international position. thank you
 outstanding. outstanding really. you covered all the points that.. suppose to the presentation. (er). I have a question. I (er) asking about ..  voice the movement is very good and the presentation without many like (eh) many words and many things and huge content everything  should be like your presentation
thank you
so (em) my question (eh) I don’t be shy when I ask you about these.. okay. how many times have you thought about  like scenarios how many times have you dream about doing this presentation 
no I did not did it for my family members but it's a part of my term paper and I have the experience of presenting this. but I  a feedback (er) year ago and some of part had to be exluded from the presentation just focus on the main aspects. and. have a lot of I had to train a lot because when I was the second-year student (eh) I did the terrible presentation and my (er) lector  (er) she trained me a lot. we had an outstanding course. public speaking and I attended it so from the person of whom talk like that  thanks for a question. thank you for your question

