 if you don’t have any questions then we will move to the next presentation well   you are welcome  hello dear colleagues can you see my presentation  yes we can …  so let’s start (eh) good afternoon ladies and gentlemen my name is  and as you know today's presentation is designed to present an important points of the criminal psychology of minors (eh) the problem of juvenile delinquency has been debatable issue in Russian law and analysis of statistics  on juvenile law shows that in (eh) twenty twenty over thirty seven thousand seven hundred and seventy one crimes committed by minors of their complicity where registered (uh) and which amount of three point seven percent the total number of crimes in Russia . studying the personality of a young wrongdoer is of paramount importance (eh) in juvenile delinquency in the long term can give rise to organized professional and recidivism oriented movements (eh) as for the motivation of minors. it's vital to understand who are they .the age of responsibility in Russia is sixteen years old but it can be for fourteen of special types of crimes thus a minor is recognized as persons aged fourteen eighteen years . based on the statistics by the Ministry of Internal Affairs a psychological portrait of their (mhm) juvenile delinquency (eh) juvenile offender (eh) was drawn which in many respects differ significantly from the one on an adult criminal (eh) you can see them in the slide . the majority of junior offenders are males and most of them grew up in a single parent family … (eh) now we will look at the pie chart which represents the structure of juvenile delinquency in Russia . as you see most crimes are committed against property which is (eh) associated decline of the economy as a whole . however another negative trend has emerged (eh) it's the creation of terrorist groups (em) that commit crimes against life and health most often schools and colleges . scientists have identified (em) is that the juvenile delinquency in Russia has unfavorable structural changes (eh) this requires an increase (eh) in the efficiency of law enforcement agencies’ work in the fields of prevention among the typical personality trait of the juvenile offender you can see them on the slide . (eh) there are more awareness or ignorance of the social roles (eh) of social interactions . moral and legal norms . also some (eh) restrictions and prohibitions expected in society (eh) the lack of a sense of responsibility for one's actions and so on ... in the slide you can study the main trends in the motives of crimes by persons from fourteen to eighteen years old . this is first of all the dysfunctional families. when a minor is brought up in a  family environment, a child  receives their parents as role models .. it has been proven that the majority of (eh) repeat offenders come from dysfunctional families and began their criminal activities as minors . in the criminal behavior of adolescent groups the motivation for self-expression (eh) is characteristic  the cynicism and demonstrativeness of the crimes committed (eh)  can also be a false (eh) sense of adulthood, (eh) a desire for a desire to associate themselves or to gain psychological protection to go against the system (eh) in connection with the latest (eh) motivational trends there is a need to create a new informational policy aimed at (eh) the youth audience and its media safety ... criminal motivation is an integrated psychological phenomenon that consists of four main components . is axiological. emotional . need motivational and behavioral .. the analysis on  minors and minor crimes reduced several ways to prevent the  to summarize the approach to the prevention program for juvenile offenders (eh) should be focused on improving the analytical and listening skills . impressing their thoughts on the awareness of their social behavior . on the correction of their worldview and development middle consequences (mm) also the main focus should be on feelings and emotional experiences .. researchers also consider it necessary to use some preventive measures to change their attitude towards emerging needs and criminal motives . as well as correction of criminal behavior to changing (eh) coping strategies ... to confirm (eh) the assumption that it's possible to form an adequate motivation of minors as prosocial behavior to a change in the (eh) components of criminal motivation . we have developed a psycho correctional program (eh) the formation of the criminal motivation of minors appears as a result of the integration of cognitive emotional need motivational and the behavioral component . correcting which could significantly lower the criminal rates .. so (eh) thank you for your attention . feel free to ask questions  …  dear participants you're welcome with your questions … so  what is the most effective correctional work in your opinion . on those that were enumerated  ok (eh) I'm glad you asked this question because .. I believe that (eh) the  correctional programs have its main benefit the usage of popular internet trends (eh) like (em) .. internet influencers to introduce the legal culture to the masses .. (eh) because their personal experience (eh) can help the minors to be awareness of (eh) . special (eh) behavior of the legal culture and (eh) became (eh) more like experienced in such situations   (eh) thank you .. so . any other questions  (eh) yes (eh)  (eh) do you think that the conclusions of your research can be also used (eh) by the police (eh) investigating the crimes that are not only being prevented  ..  well . I think (eh) it will be really useful in investigation process . because nowadays in this sphere there's not so many legislative acts regulating in this area . and (eh) by the work with the features of criminal motivation of minors . the investigators can .. (eh) work successfully with the prevention . with (eh) .. (eh) some accounting in a social networks that will help with their job and work  …  so.. no more questions in the chat and we also don't have any so lets move to the next one . thank you  

