good afternoon everyone (em) I'd like to start by introducing myself (er) my name is  and I’m a student of the faculty of economics. and the topic of my presentation today is price elasticity of industrial electricity demand in the free electricity transfer Ural zone. (em) the primary aim of the study is to (er).. to identify the impact of price on the demand for electricity (er) the price.. (er) has been chosen as the main factor influencing demand (er) as.. (em) at first glance it seems that (er) the (eh).. change=changes in (er) price (er) makes (er) consumers (er).. consume it less to reduce electricity costs. but is it a.. really so. (er) (em) basically I've divided my presentation into three main parts. in the first part will (er) I will talk about the determinants of electricity demand that were highlighted in the previous research and the results.. (em) that (er) were obtained (er) int (er) the existing studies. then  I'm going to the (er) characteristics of the (er) Russian electricity market and then I'll talk (er) about the.. (eh) method and results (er) which where. obtained in my study. (er) so (erm) as for factors that influence electricity demand in previous research there (er) there were electricity price. price for electricity and consumption at the previous period. air temperature and gross domestic product. (er) on this slide (er) you can see results obtain=obtained in some (er) previous studies. (erm) as (er) you can see the price elasticity (er) for (er) commercial uses various between minus point two to (er).. two minus (er) minus point five. and it means that (er) the (er) the electricity demand is inelastic for price so it means that (eh) when the (eh) price (er). (er) that.. (er) when the price grows (eh) the demand changes less than (er).. in one percent.. now let's move on to the characteristics of the Russian electricity market. (er) there (er) there are (er) there is a wholesale electricity market and retail electricity market. on the wholesale electricity market works light generating companies and large consumers while in the retail electricity market only (er). small consumers and generating companies that by electricity from (er) companies that works on (eh) wholesale market works. (er) also the territory of (er) Russia is divided into twenty (er) three electricity transfer (er) transfer zones. (em) it means that (er).. it's means that (er).. this (er).. there.. there are the zones in the wholesale market of electric energy (eh) within which there are no significant system restrictions for thirty percent of the time during the month. (er) it means that if something happens.. (er) in one of the region which is included in the zone (er).. other.. other regions can (er).. (em) can share the electricity without (er) without any loss.. (er) in the  (eh) free electricity transfer Ural zone as you can see from the slide (er) there are six regions. (er). Perm (er) Perm region. Sverdlovsk oblast’. Orenburg oblast’ Chelyabinsk oblast’ and (er) Kurgan oblast’.. (erm)... and they collect data contains monthly information January (er). twenty twelve to December twelve eighteen about price of electricity for the commercial uses in this own electricity consumption and air temperature. however there is (er) no.. information about (eh) price (er) for Kurgan oblast’ so this this (er) this region is excluded from the (er) from the (em) examination (er) so on the slide you can see the demand function for electricity. this function was estimated with the (er)  model as a (er).. (er) for now it’s the best model which suit today's data. (er) and on the slides you can see the results of estimation such model. (er) as you can see (er) there only in the republic of Bashkortostan and in Sverdlovsk oblast’ the price has significant effect on the electricity demand. (er) so it means that  (mm).. if the price (eh) rises the demand for electricity (em) will (em) will decline for about two point five percent in the republic of Bashkortostan. (er).. and as you can see from the slide also the price for electricity in the previous period of time also only have a significant effect in Sverdlovsk oblast’. So it means that in other regions if the price rose, the consumption will not change. (er).. so in conclusion I’d like to say that commercial demand for electricity in free electricity transfer Ural zone is price inelastic and has a negative effect. and also the price for electricity in previous period of time has the impact only in the Sverdlovsk region.. and thank you for your attention and if you have any questions I will.. I will be happy to answer them
thank you for your presentation. . but. as I said. as always. this. you’re. you want to better. I'm sure this is all that we are her for. and your presentation wasn’t as excellent as.. as I expected. it was (erm) you know you have.. (er)  about something that . So (erm) it should be like more movement or. sights.  and this is the body language is important so and (er) I’m sure.. that you weren’t that ready. because you read a lot of things and usually I expect a presenter to know what he is or she is speaking about. everything. every bit of detail.  maybe more.. beacuse the questions are usually about something more than the presenter already gave
okay
thank you very much
thank you
who is your supervisor

thank you for your speech. maybe I have a silly question but why this topic is interesting for you
(er).. (em) to be honest (er) when I (er).. I started this topic for two years and when (er).. before the third course I (er) I didn't know at all what I want to study. and when I came (em) when I came to my supervisor (er) I saw how she (er).. how she talks about. she speaks about this topic so she impressed me and (er) yes inspired me so and (mm) I also think that this topic is (erm).. a good case to show the knowledge of (eh).. economy and also (er) econometrics.. yes
thank you very much
can I turn to the results of your study concerning Perm Krai. well it is (erm) I'm just wondering about (erm) well  to your results means that the price changes changes.. (er) but (er) the consumption. energy consumption in our region doesn’t change. is it the case
 in my work I talk only about. I speak talk only about the (eh) commercial uses not the households and
can you think of the possible reasons why..
why are these
why (eh) why this happens. why this is the case. for example in the republic of Bashkortostan that is the opposite. trend 
the difference (er) are in some region (erm) region characteristics. for example (erm).. air temperature or.. or like that.  the.. how to say.. the  geography yes
geography that matter. climate. I see.. thank you so much
I have another question. sorry. so . do you think. can we generalize the results that you obtained for different regions of the russian federation. I’m not talking about our county (er) in general  can you generalize the results you obtained for them
(eh) I guess no as each region has characteristics that are unique and it (er) and they are not just they only (er) weather. air temperature  and other conditions (er) economic and (er) development of the region also plays an important role..

