 good afternoon, everyone . my name is   I’m the third year student at Perm National Polytechnic University. today I’m going to show you a sociological survey . and then comment on the effectiveness of Theatre Theatre’s and other posters .. my presentation will take about seven minutes pleases postpone your questions until the end of my talk … (erm) sorry … ok I'm sorry  posters to find out linguistic means of creating  in sphere of art .  verbal and nonverbal elements to create unity and integrity in advertising text . my research is based in posters of the most popular theatres in Perm .  at the beginning I would like to talk about  was the first theater in Perm . if you think about Opera house you are mistaken because .. it was actually it was founded in eighteen o seven . there are certain theatres in Perm . (erm) and everybody of them have at least one gold mask .. also every year more than ten events are organized by our theatres for example Diaghilev festival . insomnia night of open doors and so on . during the research  sociological survey and found out that thirty four per cent of I'm sorry .. maybe I can open another presentation .. (erm) … during the research  sociological survey and found out that thirty four per cent of young people in Perm . prefer to know about theatre  via audio advertising . the question is . how to be sure this advertising works well .. in the advertising theory there are four criteria posters effectiveness . all posters will be evaluated  the first one is   I have to answer this question because they give maximum of objective information . (erm) that makes your public focus on the event .. the second one is figures and  .. you think of this stylistic helps audience understand the mood of the event in a better way . the third  criteria is a motive there are three types of motives irrational emotional . (erm) and the moral . the right choice of the motive helps influence recipient .. and the last one is intellectuality so the posters have to be original and trigger the desired people ..  look at the side the slide presents a result of survey . you can see that the poster of the theatre at the bridge is more attractive for young people . also it didn't meet all criteria of effectiveness completely . posters of Theatre Theatre and Theatre of opera and ballet meet all the criteria of effectiveness but seems less attractive for young people and the poster of Theatre of young spectator seems less attractive and this poster doesn't meet all criteria of effectiveness . let's look at the posters and combine them . on the left you can see the old poster of Theatre at the bridge and on the right the new one which the audience voted for .. Theatre Theatre posters meet effectiveness criteria to the highest degree and twenty six per cent of people are think that it's attractive . so we can see that  information whether a performance will be there is a metaphor music on the snow understand  mosaic makes an integrity of the poster .. so in my work I analyzed about 10 posters of opera and ballet Theatre and I saw how it was changed during the time ..  of young spectator doesn't meet the criteria of effectiveness and was considered to be less attractive . there is a reason is there is no motive . but this poster have in advantage is violet because this color crates a mystic os people can understand character of the event .. in closing I want to sum up what poster should look like . it should present art because here to posters allowed to create regular develop of imagination . thinking and choose any technic they like .. it should have history because theatres attempt to save all the history of design in modern posters and  . (erm) this tendency was found in the posters of opera and ballet Theatre and the third one is a character because firstly performance is a dynamic . and whole lessons of the performance should be  in one picture . thank you for your attention 
