 and our next speaker. is. (name of the presenter) with a representation of heroic images in Soviet movies of the nineteen sixties   so my topic is the representation of heroic images in Soviet movies Nineteen sixties (er) here you can see the problem and the targets of my study the study seeks to explore the patterns of human behavior represented in the Soviet movies of the nineteen sixties (er) so in the nineteen thirties  was a form of mass entertainment the government tried to make movies both accessible and affordable (er) for the government cinema was an important tool for ideological propaganda and for citizens it was (er) an attractive form of entertain of recreation (er) the state tried to use positive images to perform educational function (er) the nineteen sixties was era of changes initiated by the government (er). the. image of a bright future was a motive for large scale changes changes were made in all areas from politics to religion (er) the most noticeable of them were in the housing issue the process of moving from large barracks to separate apartments demonstrating how the concept of (er) privacy emerged (er) also Soviet society acquired some symbols show in  science (er) space exploration became a demonstration of USSR superiority . cinema also changed it was supposed to be become closer to life their emphasis shifted from educating the person to entering into dialogue with them .. so . again in the nineteen (er) thirties cinema was an established tool . the representations of characters had (er) certain boundaries . heroes had a certain set of qualities (mm) the desire for collective work high spiritual values and a readiness to self-sacrifice here we should consider Sergei Gerasimov’s movie (er) the young guard (er) it is a story of a clandestine organization of the same name in Krasnodar and its partisan work the state directly put an put pressure on the creators of this movie to make to set up a convenient example of behavior since movies in their opinion were the strongest tool for influencing person (er) for many Soviet citizens  the people the young guard was (er) historical document that  us what actually happened to those young people we shouldn't forget that  the attention was paid only to ideological standards and not to the personalities of the characters so their actions were  often devoid of emotions and personal experiences they acted as the state needed expected them to . (er) life was constructed as a constant accomplishment of feats and the communication between characters occurred only within the framework of heroic achievements (er) here appeared (er) the image of a team performing a  so (er) next movie to consider is Naum Birman's the chronicle of diving of a dive bomber . it is also story of both the Second World War but there are some crucial differences here people just have their lives and (er) this is the main body . so it is a story of how soldiers get bored or because they can't participate in combat they play cards table hockey they try to make alcohol . Iit is shown that soldiers are primarily people they have their own interests emotions their prewar life is important for the development of the plot . so (er) at the end (er) the main characters die similarly to the young guard but here there really is a feeling that they have lost a lot (er) their feat is perceived as a tragedy . so here we have two distinctly different approaches to the interpreting and representing on screen ideology one of them describes the  where a person's life was not valued and (er) then new hero were sacrificed was important because of the war but everyone was aware of the tragedy it entailed . so nineteen sixties (er) there were changes (er) there were (er) there was an image of a hero that was not related to the military theme so you should consider ..  movie beware of the car . so that much of Robin Hood is transferred to USSR (er) noble thief Yuri Detochkin steals cars to donate money to orphanages . the director contradicts the norms of social realism showing a person who does the wrong things as a hero . (er) Detochkin's image is associated with being infantile he's not angry or aggressive his shoulders often bottom up (er) he has an awkward gate he behaves like a child of his mother . so here is is presented in a new way it is based on theft (er). the film doesn't just exploit the idea the image of Robin Hood but through the sympathy of the viewer it shows that justice is an integral part of Soviet society . so this is a movie that shows reality ambiguity of person on the screen giving the viewers some food for thought (er) now it's time to Leonid Gaidai’s diamond hand (er). analyzing the image of the main character (er) we can see that he doesn't . he is not a traditional hero (er) (name of the character) is a senior economist (er) judging by his clothes in his apartment his social status is pretty high which doesn't correspond to his (er) behavior he behaves clumsily  he gets lost which creates the image of a symbol he has to wear a hero mask that doesn't fit him all the revelations in the movie appear they occur through  that tell the viewer that it is impo= (er) impossible to be a hero in real life . so the final movie to consider is (er) (name of the director) Resident Mistake It is a big spy saga . so we should pay attention to the representation of (er) the main characters here on on the right we have to  who's a spy . he is (er) this character is ambiguous his appearance and confident behavior does not correspond to his inner status his (er) dependence on his father is emphasized (er) the protagonist Pavel Sinitsyn an  officer at the end he appears says a thief and yet he is the man who helps to arrest the foreign spy so the attitude to the characters is constantly changing we often can't (er) understand how we should (er) hate or sympathize . so this is a movie that shows reality the person is in a difficult place life situation which makes this movie social one that made according to the canons so all the all this three movies are  by the fact that we can't (er) treat the main characters unambiguously positively or negatively (er) their images are . complex and multifaceted this complexity of the character (er) of characters appears in the first  when (er) film directors moved away from the ideological norms . so the conclusions . in the  nineteen thirties cinema was accessible affordable and the stay through positive reference samples performed educational function the nineteen sixties was an era of changes and the improved housing conditions helped people to have privacy and there were new patterns of social behavior and changes were manifested in their presentation of characters so that's all.  thank you very much .. any questions   cinema in the soviet times was a very serious major hence is it possible to use a comedy (er) right (er) to  the communist propaganda   of course of course comedy was a very common genre. there were comedies this  era.(er) like (name of the director) made of lots of comedies and the state could . use this as a tool for ideological propaganda    (er) If if you you. I'm sure you have seen the diamond hand many times and you understand what the (er) role .(er) protagonist of Andrei Mironov  is very antisocial image but now in our times these protagonist may be seen like hero of our times .. hence .is it possible to say what in this times the Soviet cinema can step by step regenerate because the anti soviet protagonist is maybe very sympatic   no I don't believe that so this  was good reason I believe that was just some new tendencies in    can I jump in? but listening to your presentation I was wondering whether it's possible to make any cross-cultural comparisons about images in movies of the nineteen sixties   so can you paraphrase the question   paraphrase or repeat should paraphrase the question should I put it differently or should I just repeat   paraphrase please   Is it possible to compare images in soviet movies with images in for example American movies in the nineteen sixties   or French movies   or English   I think so that was the nineteen sixties was  (er) the USSR's would  like twenty years ago or thirty (er) so (er). it was more like something internation . so I think that we really can’t compared images presented in the Soviet movies to the images we see like American movies   in the nineteen sixties   yes   can you give any examples   example of concrete moves that we can compare or with movies from another countries   but you can say though It's not an area of my expertise I will think about it thank you very much we'll think about it next time right   yes we will think about it .  any other questions or that's it . (name of the presenter) thank you very much   thank you 

