good afternoon everyone. I am (er) let me start from introducing myself i’m  a first-year student of the Higher School of Economics of the business administration (er).. (er) and what I'm going to talk is (er) I want to (er) present my (er) research results (er) on the issue of adaptation of western case to Russia mass transit system. (eh) my research  was rather empirical than theoretical and (er).. what I'm going to talk today about. what I'm going to talk today is about the Mass Transit Road by principles of its organization and about their applicability to Russian systems.. (er) so let's start from history (er) to get an idea how the topic should be analyzed (er) so (er) in the West USA and Europe mass transit was (er).. mass transit history is (er) divided into before and after because from the end of the nineteenth century till the middle of twentieth century (erm) the mass transit systems were developing rapidly and (er) then during process of automobilization most of them were almost fully destroyed.. and.. cities (er) suffocated in car traffic. after that the authorities understood that mass transit is the only efficient way to transfer people through the city and the.. then mass transit and public transport became a necessary part of any cities infrastructure.  the professor of Pennsylvania University in sphere of urban planning states that mass transit is not service but it is social benefit. same as health care or education. (er) Russian case (er) (em).. but is we are look at the Russian case. there is another situation because Soviet systems were formally attached to the industry so here is a map of the route network of the Novokuznetsk tram and as you see there are two different tram systems (er) because (er) there were two different plants in different parts of the city. (em).. after this changes in economics (er) the traffic directions changed (er).. but the route networks did not so the private companies give the opportunity (eh) and see that they got (er) (em) domination (er) they started to dominate the system but still (er) the development had chaotic (er) character and  character and.. now systems can not provide (er) a good (er) quality level and (er) all the systems are messed up and cannot be controlled.. now=nowadays due to changes in regulatory framework (er) authorities start performing transit systems according to the western model. there were gross contracts and (er) financial obligation.. (eh) so (er).. what I'm going to talk is (er).. (er) the topic is of (ar) a particular interests=interest of those who use public transport and wants to know how the quality service is formed. I'm going to talk about (eh) copying (er) the Western model. about what the reasons why (er) the Western model can be copied by Russian efficiently.. so (er).. first is you start from the the idea of service and social benefit (er) while in Europe (er) mass transit service the easier social benefit in Russia it is still a service self. it is influenced by market laws. (eh) i’ve talked to (er) I asked several (er) businessmen from sphere of (er) mass transit in Perm and (er) I asked about (er) their principles (er) how do they (er) gain money. (er) most of them who did not monopolize the market segment (er) say that they need to compete (eh) with the other companies and they do it by (er) rising the quality. of their service. and Vladislav Yakushev the head of the transport company called Citybus (er) said that they had.. they had (eh) an interesting  experience in early twenty tenths. I want they bought some (erm) buses where there climate control systems and air conditioning and  them. and the result (er) as a result people started to skip hot stuffy buses when goes outside to (er) have a trip on.. (er) conditioned (eh) buses and the revenues started rise despite of the growing expenses on repairing on feeling the air conditioning system (er) they had their profit and they still (er) use this air conditioning system every year and have more profit than before.. and (er) as Yakushev said (er) despite the gross contracts that (er) the local authorities are going to introduce. despite this contract (er) contracts (er) require air conditioning systems in every bus he think that (er) this (er) the extra costs with the same outcome are excessive.. (er).. (er) the (er) the second point is about (er) cultural differences that form different management model. so Russian management model requires fees for payment (er).. (er) the reason is hidden in Russian mentality because Russian people want to (er) accomplish their task (er)  (er) but not to be paid for the things(er)  that are (er) aren't (er) don't refer to their responsibilities.. and the authorities (er).. (em). reproducing this contract need to think if they want public transport  want vehicles just right down the street or to transfer people. so (er) in Moscow in twenty sixteen (er) in Moscow gross contract were introduced in twenty sixteen and as a result (er) private companies starting to search for weak points in contracts to simplify their work and. if (er) before (er) the buses stopped near metro station and gathering the passengers and now they are just ride around with no passengers (er) but they go through a point and according to the contract (er) they do what they are required to.. but the system doesn't (eh) complete its essential task.. (er).. finally (er) if (er) the gross contracts (er)with financial regulation are introduced (er) the city (er) (em) got .  gets the control of the whole system. but as I said before (er) most of municipal transport companies lost their market share because of they did not meet (er) the needs of their customers of the passengers.. they did not improve their body and (em) didn’t make new routes (er) that (er) could be (erm) comfortable for their customers. and that line many of them closed and now when (er). (er) the same municipal structures. (mm) have their control (er) on the who=whole system they are (er) they will not improve the quality the same way and the quality will be falling constantly and the results maybe (er) not as good as (er) authorities of some Western scientists say. so (er).. in conclusion I'm going to summarize all the points (er) I think that (er) even is the Western  model is efficient in West it shouldn't be copied blindly because (er) if there are all the points will not be analyzed and adopted to the (er) some cal=cultural particularities (er) the.. result may be worse than it (er) than it is predicted. so the game will may be not worth the candles. so now i’m ready to answer the questions.
this subject is (em) interesting for me. you know. a foreigner.  and one of the things that I care about. I always noticing around and I (er) you know I  between . and I noticed this. this case. not about public transit. about logistics. my point of view is that Russia has one of the most complicated logistic system in the world. because you know the bus  the complication of moving goods from maybe  (er) the goods in in places. so it=it's really complicated process and now you like made me focus on something else and it’s public transportation. and actually there's something I want to ask you about (er) have you heard anything about  because there is something that you did (er) it's different than the others I appreciate it because you said that now I’m summarize all the (er) all the information about that. spoke about before and this is a really good mood. this is really good advice. I really (eh) I really appreciate that and you  the time that you took (er) no (eh) not bad now (er) for such an idea. so.. thank you
thank you for your presentation and I have a question how do the efficiency of mass transit systems (er) in which way we can measure this efficiency in the future. do you have any ideas about
there are many techniques for measuring the efficiency so if we refer to the European studies (er) they say that mass transit cannot (er) be (er) can not bring the revenue for the city or for business (er) directly (er) but the profit is (er) the money. that (er) we got (er) the state or the city receives as taxes (er) when the productivity of people who live in the city and who use public transport instead of (er) walking by foot and (er) driving a car. so when their efficiency grows (er) the productivity growths (er) as a result we have some profit in (er) for the whole city or for the whole country so. when we introduce consistent it not directly by (er) but.. through some stages (er) gives more (er) money for the whole economy
what methods did we use. that is the question. what methods did we use to calculate (er) the measure of the efficiency 
(er) the efficiency of a whole system or the efficiency 
mass, mass transit system. maybe you prefered to the western studies to some researchers there
so the question is about the whole system and about the efficiency of the
the whole system
so the.. I didn’t calculate that (er) the efficiency of the whole system
yeah. but maybe do you know these methods you can mention  
so (er) I know people who did this to these populations and (eh) they say that about (er) so (er) the same as about ..
it’s really interesting but can you say correctly calculation of what
so it is that.. the profit from the growing efficiency of the exact people who live in the city and (er) can (er) save some time by travelling by the public transport or save some money and not to have (er) so the efficiency of (er) mass transit correlates with efficiency of the whole economy. of the city or the region because the more comfortable is (er) the more comfortable.. commuting is. the more efficient are the people who commute by public transport and work 

