good afternoon everyone . my name is  and I’m a perm state university student . and so today the topic of my speech is the categorization of loanwords obtained through the conquest of the British isles . so English as a modern language is a product of the long-lasting development in which the language goes through different changes . this research deals with the impact of five main conquests of the British isles on the English lexicon . and studies the Celtic . the roman . the Anglo Saxon . the Danish . and the Norman conquest as the main sources of vocabulary changes . so therefore our aims were . to study the borrowed words for each conquest to identify the main spheres of life through which the borrowings came to the language . and to systematize the found data . this research is considered to be relevant and topical (uh) because it constitutes not only the collection of data . but its thorough analysis and sorting it out (uh) so . but before we even start . we have to define the even term borrowing . so a borrowing a loanword or a borrowed word is a word taken over from another language and modified in a phonetic shape spelling paradigm . or meaning according to the standards of the English language . this definition was taken from the book (uh) the English word by Arnold (uh) who . and this book was a huge inspiration for my presentation . so according to the calculations . there are around seventy per cent of English words that were once borrowed from several different languages . so historically . the Celts come first . so since the 10th century bc up to the first century ad  (uh) parts of the British isles were inhabited by the Celts . and they were warriors who rapidly expanded their territories they had to cultivate and look after the cattle and the city structures developed fast so that all led to the necessity of giving the (uh) names to the geographical places . therefore . the main impact on the English language by the Celts was (uh) made in the area of toponomy . so we include here geographical entities . including names of cities and villages . and some most famous examples are Aberdeen Cardiff   Dublin . Edinburgh and Glasgow . also here you can see the meaning of the original word and hydro names for a body of water with such examples as Avon . Derwent . Vesque and Loque (eh) but . soon (um) the Celts were conquered by the romans and during the period from the first century . ad up till the fifth century . ad the romans (um)  managed to leave a decent print on the English language . so before we even start . we have to distinguish two main periods . so the first period is the period of continental borrowings which happened before the Anglo Saxons settled down in the British isles . and second one was the period of the standardization of reason  (uh) so the first period continental borrowings (uh) here we have two main groups . was connected with trade . including animals . plants and foods with such examples as lobster . butter . cherry . pepper . pound and blind and so on . and what's connected with domestic and household items such as belt cap crop dish table soap pillow and so on . but obviously the most impactful of all periods was the period of Christianization of Britain (uh) and now because of this period and because of Christianization at all we have such words connected with religion and church such as altar . angel . candle . nun . pope . song and temple words connected with education and learning such as master . school . history . and grammar . and words denoting plants herbs . and trees . such as bead . seed . a ginger plant . radish . rose . and so on (uh) so (uh) and in the beginning of the fifth century ad . the romans suffered frequent attacks from the barbarians . and soon they had to leave . now we have (uh) the Anglo Saxons in (eh) four hundred and forty nine (uh) Germanic tribes . the angles . the Saxons . and the Germans . uh . began to settle down in the third room . British isles and here (um) so it is commonly believed that the Anglo Saxon set to motion the essential British culture that's why most fundamental and commonly used words (uh) come exactly from these periods of time . so . such words . such nouns as water house food friends  people family (uh)  and such verbs as believe . to leave  to fight  to make to laugh  to wipe and so on (uh) entered the language during that period . also a number of adjectives (uh) articles . pronouns . numerals . prepositions . and even interrogative words came into the English language . right . because of that period (uh) okay so there is one thing that I want to mention . it it is commonly believed that curse words (uh) start to appear in language right in the basis of it (uh) when the cultural traits of that particular nation are being born and as we mentioned . the Anglo Saxons . I consider to be the first (uh) people who were forming the British culture (uh) and national character . that's why it is not a surprise that the majority of curse words actually have the Germanic origin . and it is estimated that about eighty-five per cent of the Anglo Saxon words . gradually died out because of the upcoming (uh) onslaught of the Vikings and the Normans . so yeah . we have the Vikings coming next (uh) from the fifth century up to the eleventh century ad the Viking raids brought another period of disruption and war . but anyway you know . Anglo Saxons . the Anglo Saxons and the Vikings . they spoke sister languages old Norse and old English . that's why here we still have basic words of everyday language (uh) such as flat  meek awkward weak spout skin . leg . neck . freckle (uh) such verbs as to score . to gasp or . to call to seem . to want . to trust and so on . but which is what is important here (uh) it's nice . it's important to mention that the Vikings are known for their violent behavior . and their violent culture found the way into the English language . that's why in English . we have words connected with war and battles such as anger . die . gun . kick (uh) knife . ransack . scathe . slaughter . scare and scream (uh) bit by bit (uh). yeah (uh) the . as I mentioned before . the languages of the Anglo Saxons and Vikings were quite similar and they could understand each other . but gradually the ending support started to disappear to make . the communication easier between the two people . and that's why this process led to the modern English where we have no (uh) gender and very few endings (uh) coming up next . so we have Normans in the ten sixty-six (uh) the Normans invaded the British isles . and they made up the new aristocracy and the Anglo Saxon people became their servants . so basically there were two different languages spoken in the country at the same time Norman French being the official language . it was the language that was spoken in court . and also it is important to mention that writing was in hands of the French scribes (uh) this is the reason why English has such (um) so many examples of inconvenient spelling and pronunciation . but we can already establish that the Norman loanwords differ severely from the previous ones . and considering the fact that French became the official language (uh) people of people in power . it is not hard to understand that that's major changes of in the language were connected with government and administration . with the names of titles ranks and feudal relations and with law and jurisdiction . so we have such words as assembly . authority government . power . servant . and then the second group is baron . count . duke . feudal . manor . madame . master and law and jurisdiction accused arrest . it's only a case . cause . court . legal . marriage . money penalty . and so on . so (uh) having analysed having analyzed a five main conquests . we can make up the conclusions . so the Celtic borrowings left . the biggest mark in the area of toponomy (uh) this happens because of the fact that the Celtic conquest had more of a discovering character . so that's why we have toponyms and names of geographical entities . the next conquest was . much more important .. and of a greater quality in the loanword field (uh) so out of all found groups of loanwords . the most relevant ones are . words connected with trade because obviously the romans are known for trading and words connected with Christianity (uh) next . we have old Norse and old English red languages that came from the same proto Germanic roots . and that's why (uh) borrowings from this period . if you are to be the basic (uh) to be basic and used in everyday language as well . and it is also estimated that around eighty per cent of the first five hundred words commonly used words in English language are of old Norse or old English origin . and last but not least we have the Normans the Norman conquest . brought major changes in the English language . the loanwords of the period are connected with governments and administration (uh) titles . military terms . feudal relations and law and jurisdiction . that is all that i want to say . thank you so much for attention . now I’m ready to answer all of your questions . 
thank you .   
do you know why the English language has changed since the Normans 
 since the Normans 
 yeah . 
 oh . you mean in a loanword way or just 
 yes . you know . any of our future country
 well . obviously after . after the Normans . we have some . well . the English language has so many . different changes (um) the Shakespearean era brought a huge impact on the whole language . then obviously it's still . new words are . still coming . we have like words from Arabic origins . like if I’m not mistaken . something like tea or something like that . and then . uh . a origin culture like kangaroos . if I’m not mistaken . so yeah . obviously a language is a living organism and it goes through changes if we want it to or not . so yeah . obviously it has went through so many different changes . but I’m not (uh) I can't really speak for that a lot because my specialization specialization is about old English and what came before it . 
