 good afternoon dear colleagues to start with my name is  .. my colleague is  .. we are first-year students specializing in business administration and we are happy to be participants of this conference ... as part of today's event we would like to present a product that satisfies the needs of various social groups ..we were inspired to launch this project by people … people who are not indifferent to the current global issues .. people who care .. who are willing to take risks in order to find . their vocation in life and who are subsequently involved in peer work with their love patience and commitment … we in turn look up to such people .. and the project that is about to be discussed is the first step towards achieving our goal 
 that is no secret that unemployment is a complex phenomenon that has a negative effect on our standard of living .. how many times have you heard that . your profession is not in demand .. that the market is oversaturated with people in your line of business .. any statistics show that one of three graduates may choose not to pursue a career based on their university degree . and initial qualifications .. and the number of vacancies . and the number of candidates ready to fill … them are growing at about the same rate .. but the actual standard of education does not meet the requirements of most companies .. (er) the relevance of the research topic lies in its social implications as the oversaturation of the labour market with low-qualified . specialists increases the shortage of personnel .. which provokes contradictions between companies and potential employees .. the goal of our project is to develop the universal manual . that will allow future managers to easily navigate . the labour field . of the Russian Federation . as well as .. compensating for certain imperfections at the education system .. the objectives of the research are . as follows .. to study the most promising professions of the third decade.. to identify the job requirements applicable to future managers ..to analyze the domestic and western labour markets .. and to compare some of the current views on the most popular areas in the labour field of our country
we would like to start with the origins of the project .. last october as part of our career guidance seminar we  formed a team of like-minded people (er) our task was to create an atlas of managerial professions . and in our opinion the magazine format was the most suitable … (er) initially our guiding star was (er) the atlas of the new professions put together by Skolkovo .. unfortunately . the product developed by Skolkovo doesn't seem to me the expectations of the young generation . in terms of the (er) choosing a profession . which is no doubt a banning issue that young people feel very strongly about .. our project is more narrowly focused .. since its zeros in on a specific type of specialist . on managers .. extensive feedback from our colleagues combined with our own profound analysis enabled us to adjust to the trajectory of our projects. so as to take it to the next level .. we ultimately came out with an adapted version for the magazine . which is based on more authoritative sources . and reveals the contents of each specialty in more .. detail .. as well as looking more compelling and aesthetically pleasing .. as far as our research methodology is concerned .. our team used field research .. the study required a complex approach therefor both qualitative and quantitative tools for . data collection and analysis were applied .. more than fifty authoritative resources were analysed .. including boarding business and closer magazine scientific journals . and open access resources … the atlas is now also available in English .. 
 we suggest moving on the the content now .. the atlas of modern managerial professions is a magazine . in which we change the idea of what a manager of the future can be .. the atlas consists of a table of contents and introduction .. tips for navigation through the atlas .. ten profiles of ten professions .. description of the methodology and analytical tools supplied .. as well as an editorial letter and a conclusion .. the atlas covers a wide range of aspects from recruitment to working in the public sector . our team identified the following employment options with good career prospects . as you can see on the slide 
 so .. we believe the atlas of modern managerial professions is a forward-looking guide designed to optimize the self-identification of managers .. school children . students and people who consider changing their line of work can use the magazine as a reference book .. they will be able to look into the future and find a job taylored to their needs and personal preferences .. a job that will (er) contribute to improving our country's economy .. (er) we're also convinced that our projects can be used at the municipal level . for instance at schools and other syndicational institutions .. we sincerely hope that the higher school of economics will support our initiative . and together we'll be able to create a more advanced product . aimed at solving the problem of providing the economy with qualified personnel
 to summarize our research findings we would like to highlight the following key points .. first . most of the professions in the sphere of management have not disappeared without a trace but have only been transformed to meet the standards of modern society .. second . in the russian labour market . you can be a sought-after specialist . if you choose your specialty correctly and get a good university degree .. third .  it is necessary to constantly improve your professional competences . because modern employers are interested in versatile specialists .. in the future managers are forecast to have a wide range of options to choose from . (er) which should allow them to focus on their aspects which are as close as possible to their personal interest .. and the last .. managers should think outside the box .. the key quality of a successful manager is the ability to facilitate in the personal communication and teamwork .. solve problems and show ingenuity .. a synthesis of thinking outside the box and strategic approach to every project could be regarded as a critical success factor .. the above-mentioned ideas are reflected in our unique product . the atlas of modern managerial professions . which .. we hope . will become a source of relevant information in the field of management for you ..  we can only only wish you a pleasant and fascinating reading .. this concludes our report .. and thank you for your attention 
 well .. thank you ever so much .. both for your fascinating report and for your know-how .. and thank you for sharing it with us .. (em)  I'm sure there will be questions .. cuz we have a .. a product here .. you know .. and something really really special and of practical use .. so . please 
 thank you .. I have a couple of questions … (er) and it is very very interesting topic .. because .. you know .. the number of professions is growing highly .. and the specializations are also growing ..  and that is very interesting . that you take a deeper look . into these fields and .. get into account the trends . which influence both . labour market . and the education … my first question is about your research .. if I get it well .. you did both . qualitative and quantitative stages of the research .. so . you first were searching something and then ..calculating something .. can you please . give .. shed some light on these two stages or may be I get you wrong 
 excuse me . can you repeat . your last part of the question 
 can you . can you please shed some light on the qualitative . and quantitative stages of your research 
 (em) for example .. we have .. (er) statistic analytic … in a procents (er) … in a  procent statas in a magazine and .. some characteristics .. about the professions 
 okay .. so .. at the first step you were selecting this information from different sources . and then you were looking for numbers . yeah 
 yeah 
 okay .. this is not purely quantitative .. part . but still it’s okay … my second question is about the .. goal of your research and the subject  you are thinking about .. it is considered now .. that there is .. that people change their profession five or even ten times during their life .. and this means that .. you do not need to develop yourself looking ..  at some profession .. but on the contrary you ha= you need to develop .. different skills and it's more and more (er) said about so-called t-shaped people .. who have .. for instance .. major in managing area .. in management and thus they have plenty of managerial skills .. and .. they have minor in IT .. and this gives them some skills from the very different profession … (er) did you take into account ..this trend in your research 
 yeah .. of course .. we've had (er) .. we always pay attention on the newest information and . the newest technology . in new tendention in our study process and .. in. future . professions 
 okay great .. and how do you think . what should be added to modern education to make it more . precisely fitted the .. labour … market
 i think that answering this question .. we can say that .. in our university .. we have (er)  such opportunities (er) to (er) be really … I don’t know how to say … however .. to be … educated .. well-educated in different spheres of management .. and so .. and to take part in different projects ... in different spheres of your profession … (er) because we have some minors .. (er) if you are a student of one educational program you can also can have some useful knowledges in some other spheres (er) of … of … of our education
