 the last speaker on the section will be (name of the speaker) and move on using cognitive linguistics as we  typically to work of art   thank you so much ok good afternoon ladies and gentlemen my name is (name of the speaker) and today the topic of my speech is using cognitive linguistics as a way to analyze and interpret literary work of art and this study is based on the novel Mother's Love by Alan DenTek Groundless so the object is the literary concept of motherhood experience which which represents the generalized (er) experience of mother which is researched on the example of the protagonist of this novel.
(er) the subject is linguistic means obviously of the language that represents the concept and we have a couple of aims the first one is to analyze the verbal representation of the concept and to understand if cognitive linguistics can be used as an approach to the analysis and interpretation of an artwork .but before we jump straight in I would like to tell you couple of definitions so basically the study is based on cognitive linguistics . and it's a linguistic approach that focuses on language as a general cognitive mechanism and as a tool (er) of a system of science that plays a role in coding (er) and transformation of information . okay then (er) I've already mentioned a concept but what is it what is the concept it's a mental structure that reflects the values both of the individual and the entire linguistic community a  frame is a way to organize that concept and later I'll show you our frame . and (er) discourse it's a spoken outreach and communications between people In context (er) we should stop here and it'll be because obviously there are a lot of types of discourses like political discourse war discourse even prison discursive  . but we now are talking about a literary discourse and  I want to point out that the study is literally based on the . cognitive discourse analysis that's why (er) I'm asking to pay the attention so literally discourse depends on the author's worldview what does it mean the ideas that the author wants to (er) tell us in his book obviously comes from his head anthropocentrism mean means that the book is written by a human for other people to read .. literally discourse is only born in the process of reading so okay let me show you my notes this is just the text (er) and only when we start reading it only once we start processing it only then it becomes a discourse (er) .. also it has literally a discourse has declared sorry oh my God I'm so sorry cultural significance so the author tries to have an impact on the recipient values and cause an emotional reaction which leads to reflexivity and that leads to the spiritual essences being born .. okay now we coming to the work itself so here you can see our frame which is called obviously Mother who'd experience and (er) let me tell you about that the plot of the story together with the frame so the story itself is the speech of the mother during the alcoholics anonymous meeting so where she tells the story about her motherhood experience (er) which obviously starts from the point where her daughter Marianne is born (er) the story starts with her daughter childhood this where you have first slot childhood here mother expresses how beautiful her daughter everyone adores her she's very docile manageable and the media so obviously the  loves it and then we go to the adult life He just subdivided in to the before the accident and after the accident here we have the teenage years Marianne starts being aggressive and the mother starts to depicting her as a beast as violent and dangerous but later Marianne gets into the car accident and she . is forced to come back home here we have baby angel docile sweet so we have .. a .. comeback of the childhood now we are focusing only on the two slots which is which our childhood and adult life because these slots using the description of the main characters daughter determine the nature of the relationship in the family .. and also this nature of relationship can be established by examining the semantic connections . the first one . so here we have childhood . and as you see in childhood Marian as long as the mother could control her she appears to us (er) only as docile manageable obedient and exemplary schoolgirl qualities that are of fundamental importance for her mother . but as soon as Marianne as Marianne leaves the house the protagonist begins to describe her daughter in a completely different way subconsciously choosing words with negative connotation so outrageous she compares her  to the beast and she's violent talking about  . here we are comparing after the accident so after the accident Marianne returns home all the bones are broken and she's forced to take peels . her old character returns which makes obviously the mother happy .. (er) but it is worth noting that even though we have these words that are lexical synonyms they are not contextual synonyms because (er) the daughter's soft character returns due to the fact that the mother intentionally increases the dose of medication and the daughter remains under her control so this fact does not allow us to treat . Marianne in childhood and Marianne in her adult life after the accident equally . so what can we get from it .. some of the problems the problems of the story . the problems of the story the protagonist appears to us a antiprotagic mother or in other words cannibalistic mother (er) so she wants to control her life of the daughter in a way that she absolutely controls her and annihilates her . then we have a problem of overproduction so (er) her love is actually nothing more but overprotection the problem of generation values (er) this becomes clear when Marianne runs away from home and she's tired from her mother's constant manipulation and Marianne tries to provoke her mother and confront her values and here we can see also a social criticism of the Almaden Grandis novels . and also we can say that our protagonist actually is a narcissistic individualist from postmodernism era .. and underground is not afraid of showing us a atypical characters of women who have various forms of love even toxic and deviated . and as for the conclusions so we have created a frame of the concept motherhood experience . and we looked at the verbal representation we have studied semantic relations and it appeared to be that we have more of antonyms and synonyms . the main character appears to be an anti-hero . and obviously using cognitive linguistics together with cognitive discourse analysis can be used to better interpret and the content of an artwork . thank you for your attention and if you have any questions I'm willing to answer them ..   thank you … so you .. study the .. novel right . originally in Spanish . not particular Spanish .   (mhm) Spanish   and the words that you showed in the slides (er) characterising the daughter they come from the text itself . (mhm) so these are quotations so manageable  all of them (er) Are Derica taken ..  it's not your interpretation    well yes yes it's translation from Spanish to English but (er) the thing is that for example from Spanish to Russian it is much harder to translate but when we have (er)  that's obviously docile and going to have obedient . we have obedient also in English so  translations not very complicated   yeah Just to clear up can this come back to the slide where you find discourse liter= literary discourse  when you show these characteristics I can say if to cover up the title that you are talking about for example . newspaper discourse .. journalistic discourse . or philosophy discourse .. or let us say (er) sports discourse ..   ok I see   that's all these characteristics also can be applied to a number of other kinds of discourses so what makes particular literary discourse a separate one from the  on them .   okay so as for sport discourse we don't really have (er) the author's worldview   come on we the  always express their  opinion   ok fine but they see  that is going on in real life so   writer also sees something that's going on in real life   yes and then they change to interpret it in their own way   sports  also interpreted that with  Real Madrid is winning but Barsa is winning who is better I mean that's always interpretation subjectivity   okay I also have a study about interpretation and subjectivity so  I know that there is no answer to this  we can argue no no not to this to to literally discourse (er) but ok so for me literally discourse the main thing about it is that the author tries to (er) impact our worldview our orientation or values . so sports commentaries they don't really want us to   what are they .   oh my God  .  therefore entertaining influencing in our opinion advertising . okay   I mean again any kind of discourse is impacted otherwise it's not discourse otherwise  it's text    it's a text yes well okay but  .so you need to be I mean go go and You should find a . (er) literary feature that makes    ok fine fine fine so when we have one speak about some (mm) literary (mm) means I don't know anything like   again we can find hyperboles metaphors in sports discourse etc etc.. easy esthetics esthetics  okay fine (mhm)   (mumbling something as always)  general question (er) (er) (er) when we're going into cognitive analysis and concept analysis together with frames .we also use (er) a notion of scenario.. right   I'm not really sure because my academic supervisor hasn't mentioned it  .  ask (name of the supervisor) abou= about that so what I mean is when you present th (er) political slots of of o= of of the book this is rather a scenario this is a chronological sequence of events . how they follow each other   you mean my variant .   yeah cause this is what happens first then happens this then happens   yes but there's the second the third slot which is attitude to her daughter and it does not depend on the plot it's just the combination of everything   (mhm) but you you don't consider it   I don't consider it not because it's not important but it's just a (er) semantic relations can be seen   so that's what  what you focus on is rather a scenario . of the concept   well particularly here yes   (mhm) but not a frame  and what I would suggest is that what you bring at the end of your presentation . and we're talking about (er)  and (er) narcissism et cetera these are conceptual frames of motherhood so motherhood is what this text it is being narcissistic it is being overprotective etc etc so these are components that form this concept   yes but when we study (er) the frame. we have to take into the consideration verbal representation so I don't really have a lot of . or do you mean that I should have named the slots based on this   that's right yes and you will definitely find verbalization of these things otherwise you haven’t concluded on them yeah For example being a beast . yeah . swallowing up  .. that's about yeah kind of these things kind of food etc etc generations I'm sure they will be  .  else   yeah (er) so I'm sorry to ask another basic question you mentioned those frames way of organizing a concert right since  so could say may be a couple more words about how you well how you interpret  and how you are using it your analysis .   well yeah okay but cognitive linguistics and everything that is connected to cognitive science is broad and vague that's why I use such a (er) .. definition. but anyway frame (er) .. so it's a way of organizing a concept in a way that is (er) understandable and clear from (er) the literary discourse that I'm studying and to the people who are listening to me I think .. well who are   so is that frame of the text of the discourse your study or of your  discourse    no no no of the concept of the work art that we are researching  …  right (er) ..  well  because I'm much more familiar with (er) the different term also cognitive linguistics term schema and schemata and doesn't sound vague to me at all so but frame so for example if if if you're using this model right (er)   Is it  most schem= schema .. te= te= term    if if if you  this  and if I'm right you're saying that . this is a frame for the concept of motherhood experiences as expressed in this particular novel right so (er) obviously there is a lot . of choice involved so possibly the whole novel could could be seen as an expression of (mm) an expression of motherhood right . . yeah you were introduced to this categorization so you’ve chosen to have this thing called childhood with the list of adjectives  called adult life so ho= before or for that's how are you making these choices . how do you decide oh well what gets into your frame and what what doesn't get into your frame   so as it was explained (er) by my (er) supervisor is that cognitive linguistics and well cognitive discourse analysis is a way (er) for me as a researcher to create my own frame so basically obviously if you create the frame of the same story we would have different frames but in that way it's just the most understandable (er) you know expression of ideas and expression of representatives and that we can come across in the text   so as you were reading the text you felt that these are  these are important categories that matter (er) so what you're remodeling is not so much in the text as it is your emphasised sort of your understanding of your of the text   yes and also I should mentioned that it's not the whole frame of the concept because (er) we don't really have a lot of time here and we don't really have (er) the whole (er) cognitive linguists section so for everyone to understand I simplified it so but actually there wasn't also    we would we would understand no need to simplify    yes now I understand yeah also there was  the adult life also has a subdivision into alcohol yeah like alcoholic problem of mother because obviously she's telling th speech at the Alcoholics Anonymous meeting so I also did that in childhood was divided into for example like the character of the daughter and her description and here I combine them   fine yeah .. and .. another general question .. what would you well what does this (hm) cognitive. driven I don't know approach (er) bring to the table . I mean for you as a reader and . as as a person who comes up with an interpretation of an artwork right . what possibilities has this cognitive approach opened for you . could you tell us .   okay so first of all (mm) as we take this text as a Spanish text and my (er) next year aim and goal is to translate this text from Spanish to Russian that's why (er) also we had a definite definition analysis (er) so obviously that's the first one but except for that there is also a possibility obviously everything (er) from this conclusion to the problematic of these text is clear when you read it that the character is awful  but (er) when we study the semantic relations we actually get much more information about this character not just seeing it (er) and also connect is connected with cognitive literature studies . so we have this thing and where we take words and we don't take them for granted or we don't just (er) you know just make our opinions based on what we read but we actually read into the text and only from that based on their words and their definitions only then we make conclusions .   these are something else  semantic analysis the  analysis but the question is what cognitive approach gives you   oh what cognitive approach gives me   yeah and give it to me maybe to paraphrase that digital altered course then myself well at the end you see that this approach allows us to better understand better than what   better than if we didn't do it   ah better that nothing   yeah better than nothing that's it but .. in the way ok . so . you mean what does that give to me  from the cognitive ... then we create    is there something else doesn't it . as a reader and do as a researcher with yeah doing this  okay so now I just have a clear vision of how this story can be built and from which (er) perceptions we can look at the story . and so for example we have this motherhood experience and we so . I take it from my own experience  research it from the literature point of view and then I can my conclusion that not only I as an individual but also the entire linguistic community pretty much understands the concept   thank you very much 






