 hello everyone, my name is  I’m third year public relations student at  and . I plan to say a few words about a comparative analysis of the news in convergent media by the example tv (er) Rifei Perm tv company… I’ll divide my talk in 3 parts . (er) in first part I’ll give an overview of the problem I used . in second part I’ll tell you about content specificity of Rifei Perm tv company .. about official site and . about (er) its structure . and finally I will focus on the results of my research .. my presentation will take about seven minutes (er) feel free to interrupt me if you have any questions . let’s get started … (er) this work is devoted to the study of news in various types of media .. namely  to be company Rifei Perm and a comparative (er) an= analysis of news in social networks . on the official website and in the traditional (er) broadcast .. the relevance of the study is the problem of coverage of different topics in the news and effectiveness of their (er) coverage .. in order to compare the news I had to explore the futures tv of tv news study the features of news journalism and study the content and types of news and . analyse the content of news of tv news and social media news . compare new topics on tv  and social networks and understand  what is role of social networks for Rifei Perm tv company… and now let’s move to the information about the company and inside .. I'll start a few words about tv company  (er) broadcasting company Rifei Perm is the regional media in the Perm region .. has existed since nineteen ninety-one .. the concept of tv channel Rifei Perm is information and entertainment channel for residents of Perm region . as you can see . it’s a slogan of tv company  . since the channel refers to the convergent media . convergent media is a complex of different types of media . it means social networks (er) official website . link broadcasting and so on . I can say that main channels of tv company Rifei Perm is a television broadcast .. and official website .. then I studied the tv company and its website . I've scrutinized the structure of news and came to the following . conclusion .. it's screenshot from official website . it’s Rifei Perm . website . its rubrics .. television . you saw this .. the duty of the city . such as life . and  .. after scrutinizing news of tv company we have characterized all the news . and divided them into groups to make a comparative analysis . we have to understand what information is more on each communication channel .. for the convenience of research I’ve divided the news (er) into seven groups .. crime . traffic accidents . incidents . missing person . city life . audience feedback and tv transmission to Vkontakte . as another channel . it’s just (er) ..a transmission of news from official website to social network .. next . it was necessary to choose (er) the duration of comparative analysis . take a certain period . we study the news .. I study the news four days . this period included two weekends and two weekdays . this is enough to trace the dynamic of the news . I think that it's possible to study the number of news releases produced on different channels (er) for broadcasting . namely YouTube platform and Vkontakte tv and official website… it was necessary to understand which news topics are included on different channels . which information goes to the social network . and which website . and what information is cut off and goes on the air .. I mean live (er) broadcasting .. I propose go to the results of the study .. these bar charts answer to following questions .. first is how many news program (er)aired during the day on these channels . second (er) question is . what are the topic of these programs and . to finally if the information broadcast on different channels is the same or different .. . it’s the second day . third day . and the final day .. and this is a bar for Vkontakte … (er) bar charts show the topics covered in the news (er) on each communication channel and their number (er) and . as you can see . the program expressed in percent … and now Vkontakte .. I have scrutinized the news in . Vkontakte and .. (er) in conclusion Vkontakte performs the function of feedback of citizens .. of Perm . (er) the official site performs an informative (er)  function .. in addition research about the Vkontakte broadcast on the urban life . peaceful activities and does not present information about accidents . emergencies (er) for example .  and even in the shortened version . unlike (er) on official website .. YouTube has no information (er) exact cumulative chronical material . (er) YouTube channel is an additional communication channel (er) like a collection of (er) extracts from the television news .. the information is fully broadcast on official website . and its . shortened version on television .. basically . the material about the incidents . crime and raw incident is cut off (er) a huge proportion of all the news is about to the life of the city . namely the opening of different (er) exhibitions . problems (er) in the urban landscape . repair of fraught . (er) opening a new facilities in the city .. (er) we can say (er) that there is much less negative information than neutral or . positive .. (er) the audience on social networks expects and wants material of neutral or positive coloring .. administrators cut off negative content in Vkontakte .. (er) the reason . I don't know why … like that rubrics of the official website of the company don't change .. (er) reports are published in pool .. there is no cut off information .. the television company  post of a news post to their social network immediately after the news (er) appear on the site . and .. in conclusion . (er) I’d say that (er) the YouTube platform  very little news . the channel has received little attention (er) but the reason has not been clarified . too .. thank you for listening . if you have any questions I’ll be happy to answer 
 thank you … how harmful it is .. in terms of social effects . to only hear about the good stuff in the news 
 (er) … what do you mean 
 do you think that when you watch news and you only see the good things . do you think that makes the things a bit hidden . or everything is fantastic  
 no .. (er) another things .. anything on the news can be negative (er) sure .. but (er) .. but on the site . the news are at= .. (erm) I . as a … as a user of the website I can see all news .. negative . positive in full format . in full volume (er) but in (er) social network (er) I said about Vkontakte because Rifei Perm used . only Vkontakte . and a YouTube channel .. on these channels we can short version . and I don't know why it's the only positive .. well . (er) citizens use Vkontakte like feedback . and .. I think it's .. like conversation between company and users .. followers 
 thank you for your presentation . and my question is . how the results you’ve obtained can be (er) used . for example for the advertisement agencies or the marketisers of these . tv (er)  so . how can they use this information  
 I think (er) the results can help in research in marketing (er) actually .. I think . it helps for using social networks for future of . using social networks . maybe . company .. in future will use only website . like . information of world . of company and . less use a network . social network . because as a . practice show us . it’s (er) difficult and complicated in finally 
