okay . (er) so today I’d like to call or to talk about casuals when they get into our games . they’re . really getting on our nerves . that one guy who just doesn’t want to cooperate . well actually we’ll we won’t talk about people . we’ll talk about the games . (er) hyper casual games is not not s= (er) a specific genre . it’s a subtype . it’s connects with how difficult a game it is . but as with the most (er) tough to describe things there is no one particular description but the one I’d like (er) ... ok some modern times (er) the one I’d like to use (er) is it’s a type of game that can be described in touch to play . so very simplistic design and (er) the rules of it is not very hard . some of the examples of them you you know them you really did play of on all of them but it’s just you never use the hyper casual term . (er) one (er) and one of the (er) most (er) famous perhaps the one that started the big boom that is (er) this medium is seeing right now . (er) yeah . Flappy Bird there . the one game (er) but don’t just take my word that (er) this industry is booming right now . (er) (er) look at some wait what . that’s the wrong presentation . we’ll manage it ... (er) don’t take my word . (er) take (er) look at the numbers right now . (er) in the whole gaming market the mobile market (er) takes (er) around 50 per cent of overall games market . the hyper casual subpart of it is one of the most prevalent . the market itself is a taking astonishing one hundred thirty seven billion dollars . and (er) it’s actually one of the fastest grown (er) seasoned fastest growth of all them . if you’re still not satisfied with my (er) with the numbers let’s see what (er) ... (er) Misha Kolotkov has to say (er) the Rovio’s head designer as casual games implement deeper meat core features they become more engaging but also more complicated . this in turn opens up a segment of hyper casual games that dominate games that are easy to start and fun to play . (er) and (er) if we (er) if you were to open (er) the app store page just a year ago you would only see around three games in a top fifteen . but right now the picture is complete opposite . only three of them will be not hyper casual games . and (er) some analysts say that . by twenty twentyone it will be the most dominant market . so (er) right now we think that consoles PC games they’re the dominant ones . they’re the ones what that we play . many will disagree . many will say that the mobile is the future . the mobile is what driving the market right now . and as (er) people (er) seeing that the triple A scene also realizes that maybe they need to change something about themselves . and . basically that was my face when I heard that . cause right now (er) many developers of what (er) many consider the real games like for example God of War or I’m gonna beat a dead horse right right here a bit . Fortnight they’re moving into the realm of creating games not as a single player experience . they’re moving (er) into the realm of making services so that (er) they’ll be able to implement . micro-transactia . sorry microtransactions and (er) sell not only core game existence but also some extras .. (er) and we can see this with (er) some projects as Elder Scrolls Blades . (er) which is (er) moving the usual the usual games from the realm of PC and consoles onto the mobile . it’s not (er) that it’s bad . it’s just . with every day passing . the idea that the triple A scene is going to crash soon is not (er) as far away as we can think because this really creates a disconnect with the whole player base . it’s it’s not about the strategies that they use it’s about how they implement them . and . (er) I don’t want to get into the controversy but even if the developers like the Bethesda game studios . well the last one to fall with the failed projects and underperforming in the past years if the titans of this industry cannot do their work then who will save us . thank you for your attention
thank you ... any any questions .. aren’t you interested in games
yeah I like elder scrolls I’ve not played I don’t know a bit
okay
I’m real sorry . actually used the draft version I don’t know what went wrong like to apologize in advance
 I have participated in a global game Jam last year . and we tried to create (er) this type of game . (er) we’d be the market research like (er) looked at top one hundred games in the Google a= store but why (er) but (er) why (er) it even get enough attention to from (er) audience . why do you think
oh so you mean why the sudden shift in the attention or
like ... was it (er) sorry
so maybe I start talking and you’ll restructure in the question . the boom of (er) hyper casual games it actually happened from (er) March of two thousand seventeen to the May of two thousand eighteen . that was . (er) the samples that were taken were the app stores were actually taking off . and it’s it’s it’s not something in particular it’s just it suddenly got onto people . people actually realized that it is a lot more profitable to spend a week in the home alone and create something . well (er) I don’t want to swear but subpar product basically . it’s not that hard to code . it’s not that time consuming . but (er) with the implementation of (er) clever ads (er) it’s makes (er) sometimes double the profits of a usual of a normal game that would take a lot longer to develop and a lot more force used to make it
so your research is for developers not for users
(er) my my research is basically trying to answer the question how . how this hyper casual side of (er) gaming (er) transferred into the realm of triple A how they changed (er) to (er) be on the wave of this (er) new fluffy thing . because right now if we actually think about there’s a lot more games that are multiplayer and there are a lot more games with no single player experiences just (er) an actual service where you have to dump money into it . and only then you’re allowed to play or spend your time freely
okay . I don’t
I need to speak while doing the research about what do you think the th= the I want to say it again (er) so the hyper casual games aren’t sheepish of customers than developed by one hundred people
I don’t get the question . sorry

I still didn’t get it
well then hyper casual game is a game that was made by one person like that
yes it is possibly basically yes yeah . as as the Flappy Bird was made by one person again
do you think that the so you think that they should be cheaper
yes they are cheaper to make 
do you think that (er) the price needs  against the popularity that first people should to play enough to that play or sit still it’s it doesn’t difference a lot of gamers . then you first play and after that you can buy the continue fee
yeah . and here’s the problem . what many people don’t like about this new approach of making a service and then you having to pay extra for it is that your (er) e= (er) let let’s make a small analogy . it’s like you’re you’re showing (er) cake to a person and you’re saying look at this pleasant cake but uh uh uh look this glass ceiling you have to pay me some extra to remove it so you can actually taste the cake . so you’ll show (er) some small mechanics (er) the game loop but you won’t (er) allow the game itself to flourish and you’ll charge extra for it . (er) the main problem is it’s it’s okay if free to play games do that . but right now we are (er) in the year when (er) . full forty dollars sixty dollars games do that . for example there was (er) a think it was met= Metal Gear Solid Five and it actually hid the true ending of the campaign behind a paywall . that’s not very good to do . that’s not a very good practice . they received a real hard backlash from that . 
what do you think about the influence of rewarding of memory (er) of a game pay to play
basically it’s irrelevant (hehe) because (er) the (er) memory is not a problem in any media right now . we’re at a point where (er) the the only place where memory does matter is when you’re programming a CPU or GPU goes that’s the only place where you have hard limit . on that . you only have the set amount of assume commands before you run out of them
ok  thank you very much
thank you
