 hello. dear colleagues. my name is (er)  and the name of my scientific work is be like Parma. play with Parma. (er) my presentation will be divided into three parts (er) introduction.. main part and the conclusion..  at the end of my speech you can ask me a questions.. (er) let's get started... so.. (er) the object of my scientific work (er) is advertising communication.. the subject is clubs external communication program using augmented reality technology and gamification.. the goal is (er) to develop an advertising campaign of. the clock using gamifications and augmented reality technology for greater involvement of club fans and guests of. the match.. and (er) you can see it asks. (er) I will return to that later when I will make a conclusion… so. what is gamification.. it is the process of using (er) game strategies and concepts (er) to attract and retain users in different areas of human activity.. (er) benefits of gamification use (er) firstly. increase and retain audience. for the company. (er) it means that gameplay is always interesting to people (er) whatever they their age. is.. this could help company to retain. and increase audience.. secondly. this is more (er) participation than presentation for the consumer.. consumers. can take part in presentation or advertising. of something.. thirdly. useful product (er) experience for the consumer.. where people interact with the product from advertising. they get some experience… (er) what is the augmented reality (er) this is a technology (er).. technology is (erm)…  projection of (er) visual objects on the real environment. through the camera of your smartphone.. (er) benefits of.. use this technology (er) (erm) firstly.  emotional connection. consumers can see. and interact with advertising. objects (er) secondly. personalized recommendations.. (er) hyper local augmented reality ads tell users about the places of interest (er) to them (er) and show them on the screen of a smartphone.. thirdly. sales increase.. augmented reality can be as a tool to increase sales in the next way.. for example. potential buyer saw.. an advertisement for sunglasses has the opportunity to try them. on himself by pointing. the smartphone camera. at his face.. (er) and . save money.. augmented reality advertising is usually more.. affordable.. affordable.. (er) and more exciting than print ads.. there are some difficulties (er) in using augmented reality.. firstly. (er) the need for independent (er) mobile application.today augmented reality works with the help of special mobile. Applications (er) users need to download mobile application in the Apple Store or Play Market (er) this requires (er) time and phone memory… but. Today (er) big IT companies work on this problem and create a single system of air (er) application that. does not require downloading… download ..downloading individual applications.. (er) secondly. device performance.. user gadgets should have (er) high performance for better visualization of the material. people (er) are unlikely to use.. ads (er) in full resolution hence when.. when playing animation.but. the number of powerful gadgets (er) is growing each semester… so. the club Parma.basketball club Parma (er) was founded on August two in twelve-twenty (er) enters the strongest European league… VTB United League.. includes  players (er) become arena of the basketball club Parma is the legendary (er) universal play palace. of sports . which seats.. seven (er) seven thousand spectators.. home games on (er) average are attended by (er) one hundred.. (er) one thousand four hundred people. Target audience of the club (er).. children from seven to eighteen years. active young people from (er) eighteen to thirty-five years. club fans and (er) basketball fans… Parma use next channels of communication. (er) firstly. radio. (er) TV. press and the Internet… (er) so. the concept of (er) my advertising message.. (er) what user do.. user (er) firstly sees an advertisement then he downloads the application.. then directs smartphone to advertise.. (er) shoots fifteen balls and receives (er) fifteen percent discount on the match… (er) I interviewed about a hundred people (er). among them were basketball fans and (er) potential audience (er) of the club.. the poll showed that (er) the people are ready to accept this format of advertising.many of them. for example. are ready to download a . separate application and most of (er) their smartphones surveyed (er) productive and (er) enough to reproduce an application… so. (er) the performance indicators (er) surveyed number of downloads of the application repeated. survey.. and the.. attendants statistic.. by the way. this gives to the club (er) application with users information about users.. (er) new subscribers in social networks and (er) repost from the application… to the conclusion. I would like to (er) note that use of AR technology and gamification is the new stage in the advertising industry. (er) less intrusive and more interesting for the consumer (er) than simple advertising.. at the moment. the project is (er) at the implement stage (er) during the entire process. I developed (er) a concept of an advertising message. calculated the advertising budget. conducted a survey (er) developed and tested an application.. thank you for your attention and (er) I would like to show you the video how this application works…
 thank you very much. questions please.. I was interested to know. you’ve said that it’s not intrusive. or less intrusive than other advertising  . how is that less intrusive if surely it’s an app on your phone. thank you very much   
  (er) it is less intrusive because (er) consumers (er) can… interact with augmented reality objects.. but (er) they cannot (er) interact with other advertising messages 
 you’ve mentioned that (er) the participants of your poll (er) were already fans of the Parma and basketball.. but don’t you think that this application would be also popular only among fans.. so. this application will not help to attract some new audience 
 I don’t think this. because.. (er).. I made the poll (er) with the… colleagues from university (er) some students and (er) they liked this application. they don’t show interest in basketball.. but they are ready to interact with this application 
 okay. I see that they may like the application but it doesn’t mean that they will go to the (er) Parma basketball match 
 (er) can you repeat slowly  
 so. I mean. even if (er) the audience. like the application. it doesn’t mean that they will go to the basketball.. to see the match 
 (mm) yes 
 so. what is the aim of the application 
 (er) I can’t say it (er) the most people I surveyed (er) they liked this application and (er) they said that they (er) will have interest to the basketball in the future.. and this is (er) the criteria  of the successful.. (er) this project 
 thank you 
