 Is this well enough 
 (nea) 
 (hmm) wait a minute  
 yeah . that's better now 
 better  
 yeah yeah . if you  closer yeah . the microphone is great 
 good afternoon . my name is  and I'm a historian from Permís Higher School of Economics .. (er) I want to apologize in advance to those who may have already heard this presentation in Russian but let it be so . as you can see . my talk will focus on the first translations of John Tolkien into Russian . and the historical cultural and social conditions of their appearance .  (eh) we will get to know Tolkien's first translators . sorry a little bit .. (er) then we'll turn to the history of the dissemination of his text in the west .. then we'll move on to the Soviet translations . and finally we'll try to understand their motives of the translators and the meaning of Tolkien's books for them ... it is interesting that at practically the same time within the same decade . different completely unrelated people became interested in the work of an author who was little known in the USSR at the time .. and we are talking about the translation by   . a self published translation of Alexander Rubber . and finally the book by  and  .. I took out the study of the life world . of Tolkien  translation into Russian . and as a part of the study I was to find out how John Tolkien's image was shaped in the Russian environment . and what were the motives for translating these texts .. (er) I also had to determine how the social cultural or situation in the country influenced this decision .. my work is based on the recollections of the translators themselves . memoirs of their close friends and relatives . as well as interviews including my own ... it is often believed that John Tolkien's name was completely unknown in Soviet society . and to refute this opinion . let us first look at the distribution of Tolkien's text in the west .. in the 70s and also in the 60s the United States and Western Europe experienced a phenomenon . that manifested itself in a sharp rise in the popularity of Tolkien's books . and the emergence of numerous forms of reflection on the work of the professor .. this includes the translation of his works into European languages .. John Tolkien's persona in the West became massively famous during these years and is soon touched the territory of socialist countries .. active efforts began to translate Tolkien into the languages of the Soviet bloc . and the first translation of the Hobbit was printed in Slovak .. then . as you can see on the slide . the book was translated into Serbian . Russian . Estonian . and Czech ..  so . members of the Russian intelligentsia had plenty of opportunities to come across the author's name and reference books . or to hear about the appearance of translation of these books ... under such circumstances . three translators . independent of one another . decided to translate the same author .. (er)  they lived in three different cities . they did not know each other and their social circles were not connected and did not intersect with each other .. in addition . all three also belong to different schools of translation ..  can be classified as belonging to the Leningrad school of translation .. (er) in the 50s she studied under prominent representatives of the school ..  never attended translation courses . and studied the art of translation independently .. it can be assumed that his translation belonging to . formalism or  . in a broader sense . to literallism .. it is difficult to determine whether  belonged to one school or another .. it is known that he studied .. (er) .. under  and  . with whose approach he disagreed .. but if we analyze  style . we can find similarities with the principle of realistic translation . (er) according to  which was very widespread in those years ... (er) so . unexpectedly . each of these translators decided to take on the translation of John Tolkien's books .. (er) the non random nature of this coincidence can be explained by drawing parallels between the authors and demonstrating their similarities between them .. and the most obvious similarity is their philosophical education ... another peculiarity is their interest in foreign literature .. (er) all three authors translate mostly from English . and in one way or another . interect with the West .. the Hobbit came to  from foreign friends of the writer  . in addition the translator may have heard John Token's name from (er) literary friends or come across it independently in domestic publications  was interested in science fiction and encyclopedias .. (er) and could also have met John Tolkien after seeing his name in one of the reference books .. in addition his wife went on business trips abroad ... from there she brought not only books . but also information about popular English English writers ..  social circles consisted of translators and literary figures . who were certainly aware of popular books abroad .. nor can we deny the possibility that  was acquainted with excerpt of The Hobbit published in Magazine . England or  ¿Ì„ÎËˇ   in Russian .. in each case . (er) the initiative to translate belonged to the author and was not the order of the editors.  began working on a translation of the Hobbit soon after reading it .. it was clear . that children would find it interesting and useful .. so she took . a couple of the translated chapters herself to the editor who approved the publication ...   is eager to introduce the book to his children and so decides to undertake the translation .. he undertook the translation solely to distribute it among his loved ones . the text was not intended for the general public .. initially   and   translated the book for themselves . but after finishing the work . they decided to get it published .. the translators negotiated long and .. persistently until they finally agreed to publish the book ... we can assume that each translator . in one way or another . sees their text as a political manifesto . which is a reflection of their  worlds .. all of them had a sad experience with Soviet regime . and this experience subsequently superimposed itself on the meaning of Tolkien's book and change their perception of the text by translators ... many of  love ones and friends suffered from the actions of the Soviet government . her father . her teacher  translators . close family friends and her husband ..  reflection of the life world and her disagreement with the Soviet reality in which is forced to exist . is evident in her attitude towards the text rather than in the text itself .. and the main thing in The Hobbit for her was the idea of the value of the so-called small person ... teachers who suffered under the Soviet regime played a major role in shaping  personality . this is his academic adviser . his favorite teacher . and also close friend of his .. he was also not an active opponent of the Soviet system . although he did not use the Soviet policy very positively ..  argues that The Lord of the Rings is about the struggle between right and wrong . while  the unreliable nature of the text ... the environment in which  lived and grew up strongly influenced his perception of The Lord of the Rings .. since childhood  grew up among antisoviets . and later he became part of the social circle of opponents of the government . and having read The Lord of the Rings .  and his friend  perceived the book militantly through the prison of the Soviet system ..  thought to put his view into the translation . to make the book proclamation of rebellion against the brutal regime 
 At least I think you can be moving closer to the conclusions 
 (er )okay, (er) I`m ready to finish. so we can see some similarity between the translators. which allows us to suggest. that they largely perceived their reality around them in the same way .. and this largely depends their presence of political connotation in the text and .. (er) the text of translation is full of allusion because of that ..  instead of conclusions . I will say that John Tolkien turned out to be an outlet for the Soviet intelligentsia and they saw in his books an allusion to the contemporary reality . and skillfully transfer Soviet reality . through these translations . okay yeah I think I'm ready to finish and answer questions 
 Thank you ... (erm) .. any questions colleagues .. listeners ... am I right in understanding your speech .. as .. that translators were using Tolkien's work more like. an opportunity for a metaphor .. of the political regime more than for example they desired to escape .. that kind of social reality moving and move away from that into the fantasy world 
 I can say that  tries to .. (er) with the help of the Hobbit escape from the Soviet reality . but in the case with  and  . we can see that . (er) there is a lot of evidence in the text that they try to proclaim something 
 so they have different strategies . yeah  on this 
  Yes 
 does it also depend on the material that they were translating . Hobbit is fore a fairy tale  
 yes I think so . and  loved children books . she was very kind and pretty in nature 
  so that`s genre . so that`s aspect of genre as well .. anything else .. any other questions ... okay .   thank you very much .. that was very  to us you were talking  
