 good afternoon . I would love to tell you about the concept of sustainable university . all organizations from businesses to civic organizations need to . (uh) seek to generate value with limited resources . and economic sustainability can be achieved in the long term by realigning their organizational strategies to be ecologically and socially sustainable . in fact the likelihood is high that the universities and colleges .. (uh) end up producing far more waste than the other types of residence simply because the high population they catering to . and when the hear the word sustainability we tend to think about the renewable fuel sources reducing carbon emissions protecting environment and a way of keeping the delicate ecosystem of our planet in balance . In short sustainability looks to protect our natural environment . human and ecological health while driving innovation and not compromising .our quality of life . it consists of three aspects environmental economic and social . economic development (uh) is about (uh) giving people what they want without (uh) compromising the quality of life especially in the developing world . (uh) and (uh) reducing the financial burden and the red tape (uh) to do (uh) doing the right thing . Social aspect is about  and the distillation protection of health people through pollution and other harmful . activities, business and organizations . and also it about developing and maintaining small and medium sized businesses and environmental sustainability is about preserving of the environment (uh) about diversity commerce, conservation and et cetera . The aim of this research is . to create a sustainable development strategy for Russian universities based on the example of higher school of economics in Perm . (uh) on one on the one hand the concept of sustainable campus is aimed at increasing the efficiency of the campus . saving money transitioning to innovative development reducing the reducing the environmental impact and providing rational use of resources . on the other hand (uh) at least till the acquisition of the expansive equipment creation of additional department and attraction of the new plate . In this regard research question arise . is it necessary and effective and effectively to implant (uh) this concept for Russian universities and (uh) will it justify the time cost for its implementation . to answer this questions we need to conduct (uh) a survey to reveal whether our organization is ready . to incorporate sustainability (uh) and whether the staff (uh) are aware of this term . (uh) then we need to conduct expert (uh) interview (uh) to get expert opinions on . procurement management and technical aspects of economics in Perm . and (uh) to and (um) the third method is analysis of regulatory acts related to the common standard of implementing this concept (uh) . speaking about preliminary results (uh) we have developed eight element of sustainability based on the literature and best practices of (uh) sustainable universities . (uh) the first element is (uh) university policy it’s all about mission aim task of the university for example (uh) the mission of  university in context of sustainability is about (uh) ease to explore the potential of nature (uh) to improve the quality of life . the second element is a sustainable development department they are (uh) developing strategies procedures for sustainability . the third is a plan which consists of different directions for example transportation policy rational use of resources recycling . then (uh) the operations (uh) . the specific stapes steps for implementation then the fro= the fifth element is the interaction between university administration and the student community (uh) . we need to involve students in this process because they’re really a part of the team a part of the university (uh) the sixth element is development of oral indicators as reflects the university priorities . of course we need to monitor and to assess these indicators and the last element is optimization . the search for new and good solutions for this concept . often we analyzed five sustainable foreign universities according to international rankings (uh) and five sustainable Russian universities also participate in (uh) sustainability rankings (uh) and we found out that (uh) . four universities  . pay attention to energy saving technologies and ecological technologies for example  solar panels wind turbines (uh) something like that and the Russian universities formed their own vision of sustainability they incorporate sustainability courses (eh) (uh) for example (um) they also include (uh) they also .. include sustainable eleme= (uh) such sustainable e= sustainable elements as. (um) advance as dreamer week (uh) charity week . . speaking of analysis of procurement and educational program in higher school of economics in Perm we analyzed (uh) fifty nine purchases (uh) in order to reveal (uh) whether the procurement department uses terrible procurement in procedures or not and we found out that (uh) in some procurement the higher school of economics uses (uh) ecological criteria (uh) for example (uh) they purchase energy-efficient light bulbs (uh) and they purchase a lot of goods and services from (uh) small and medium-sized businesses. and this is the social aspect of sustainability (uh) of course the environment may not be the number one thing most students spend time thinking about . but (uh) the truth is that wherever there are people ecosystems are affected and this is no less the case at college and universities .. we analyzed (uh) four hundred and thirty one educational programs and we will get only one program has one topic sustainability . sustainable procurement . and (uh) unfortunately our university is not aimed at increasing the . (uh) sustainable behavior of students . and we need to expand our curricular to incorporate these courses (uh) . speaking about further analysis (uh) in order to create sustainable strategy in higher school of economics in Perm we need to conduct three interview . first interview with the head of campus to determine the directions of sustainability and (uh) to determine is it really possible to . create the whole strategy of higher school of economics in Perm in the context that  our autonomy is limited by higher school of economics in Moscow . the second interview with the head of procurement department (uh) in order to reveal (uh) whether they are familiar with the term sustainability and our (ah) is our organization’s ready . for sustainable procurement . and with the top  engineer to (uh) reveal how garbage is collected is recycled and how the electricity system and water meter work . and basis of this we can create and develop our strategy . (uh) college is a really good time to start cultivating constructive behavioral patterns in relation to other people and in relation to the environment there are some good and relatively easy ways to continue the process of going green . first of all you can pay attention to packaging and bags . (uh) just so you know the bags or (uh).  at the grocery store and elsewhere bring your own bag or just don’t take a bag (uh) similarly look for products that have less packaging which leads to less trash that means less material (uh) that potentially headed straight to the at landfill to  and other pollutants . (uh) also you can unplug . unplug devices is really a big piece of puzzle it would having to get into . (uh) instead of contributing to the packaging consumption problem buy yourself a sturdy water bottle to . carry around the campus . and if you’re coffee drinking buy a reusable mug . (uh) shaving a few minutes off of your shower time on a regular basis and waiting until you have a full load of laundry to do a wash are good sustainability practices . and then (uh) recycle . recycle forces students to think about what they are putting where they are putting their trash which  doesn’t come naturally for many people . and now I want you to take a brief test it contained of four questions just guess for answers . the first question is about (uh) how much energy does energy efficient light bulb save . warrens you can see in the slide and then you can check your answers … the second question (uh) how much energy gallons of water and pounds of emissions of one hundred percent recycled paper save … how much plastic bags does an average man use during a year … and the fourth question (uh) how much gallons of water a hot water faucet that leaks one drop per second can add … I want to take this test in order to understand how much harm we do to nature . the (um) answer for this question for the first question is eighty percent (uh) energy efficient light bulbs typically use about eighty percent less energy than the traditional bulbs (uh) the answer for the question two you can see on the slide (uh) the answer for the question three is ninety (uh) an average person uses ninety plastic bags during a year imagine how much trash do we produce and the answer on the question four is one hundred and eighty five gallons of man . that’s more than that’s more than one person uses in two weeks ... I can see your rating and in conclusion I just wanted to state that (uh) while working to reduce our environmental footprint raise awareness about sustainability problems or research sustainable solutions educational institutions that are working to transform to transform themselves as agents of change are living and learning the institution of sustainability and the concept of sustainable campus . is an aspiration a vision with nourishes of a practice and each (uh) educational institution can (um) create their own path of sustainability . thank you for your attention 
thank you 
how can the students help encourage  to become more sustainable
(uh) well it’s a difficult question . they can participate in some international (uh) events if our university will participate in such events then we can encourage students to do so because they can (um) get some rewards if they win for example or some pr= prizes or they can (um) . participate in networks in . facebook for example something like that . or we can  in . incorporate sustan= sustainability courses and explain them and motivate them by such courses
you mentioned that we have to unplug devices right . so for example (uh)  it’s plugged In but device is not connected . does it still take energy
well I’m not assur= I’m not sure about that.  but I think you’d better unplug everything
’kay as far as I understood you are planning to interview the director and the . chief engineer of our university . have you already done that
no and I’m planning in this (uh) in this se= in the (uh) ma= in march 
