 can you see the presentation .. hello everyone .. my name is  and I am a second year student at  .. the topic of my presentation is virtual reality of the modern tourism industry . historical . ethical and marketing aspects … (er) the main point I’m going to develop are presented on this slide  (er) to begin with . the rapid development of information technologies in recent years has had a significant impact on the tourism industry .. one of the manifestations of digitalisation of this sector is wi= . is widespread use of virtual reality technologies .. (er) virtual reality . or VR can be defined as a computer simulated environment (er) that gives the user .. the sense of being present in that environment .. it is based on the concept of . immersion and presence . VR in the context of tourism . creates a virtual environment by the provision of a real-life content captured with a VR system . resulting in a virtual travel experience .. (er) this experience stimulates (er) the visual perception and potentially other senses .. by virtual tour we will meet the simulation of an existing location .. usually composed of a sequence of videos or still images .. (er) 3D images . three hundred sixty degree cameras . video . audio and panoramic views . are among the most popular virtual reality technologies .. (er) however . the most sophisticated forms include being immersed into environment through movement . feeling . and smell .. (er) the use of virtually reality technologies . in tourism has several advantages .. (er) firstly . VR ruins accessibility barriers for disabled travellers .. secondly .  it gives the possibility to visit protected or dangerous sites .. moreover . VR can contribute to sustainability as it constitutes the environmentally-friendly way of travelling .. however . VR can pull a threat to countries depending on tourism industry revenues .. besides . virtual trips are less authentic .. the need for advanced and expensive IT technologies and time-consuming organization process . can also be mentioned among the main challenges … (er) the history of virtual tourism began in nineteen fifty with the gradual invention of VR technologies .. in nineteen ninety-four . the first virtual tour was created in Great Britain .. from the last nineteen nineties VR technologies were widely used in the sphere of tourism as . an auxiliary tool for marketing and entertainment purposes .. (er) by that I mean virtual hotel tours . commercials with special effects . and . virtual reality glasses used in museums  (er) significant changes caused by travel restrictions in two thousand twenty contours .. i mean . the coronavirus pandemic took place in two thousand twenty .. (er) tourism turned out to be the hardest hit sector .. (er) and this determines the relevance of the research in this sphere .. according to the world tourism organisation . a total of two hundred seventeen countries have opposed travel restrictions .. and more than one hundred million people have already lost their jobs . (er) that would contribute to three trillion dollars decline in travel gross domestic product in two thousand twenty .. (er) however . with every fundamental shift comes innovation .. (er) in conditions of forced isolation . virtual tours became . the only opportunity for the survival of tourism industry and game special demand .(er) of course . this dictates new rules for doing business .. (er) in first three quarters of two thousand twenty a huge number . of successful projects in this sphere were implemented .. (er) for instance . virtual tourists from Japan have already visited the savonia region in eastern Finland .. (er) tourists travelled using live internet broadcasts . and videos ..  firstly . they made a virtual flight and then continued their trip by train .. (er) the trip took several hours and (er) cost only twenty euros per person . (er) thus . another significant of virtual trips is their related to low cost .. (er) virtual tourism is extremely diverse .. for example . the web site polar bears international offers life infinite broadcast for those who dream of seeing northern lights ..  host virtual meditations on the coast .. besides . you no longer need to travel thousands of kilometres to be acquainted with positions of the world’s famous museums .. (er) this raises a number of questions .. (er) what is the consumer’s attitude to forced digitalisation (er) will virtual tourism be able to compete with traditional one .. or . virtual trips are relevant only during emergencies such as pandemic .. in order to get a reliable answer I have developed a questionnaire … it was distributed among two hundred people aged from eighteen to sixty . who took part in virtual tours of the State Tretyakov Gallery . the Pushkin museum of five arts . the state Hermitage museum . and excursion through the streets of Moscow and Saint Petersburg within the last six months .. in the next part of my presentation I'm going to present you the results of the survey … (er) well .. (er) ninety-three per cent of respondents rate the experience of participating in virtual tours as positive and exciting .. the average degree of interest of consumers in virtual tourism is four out of five .. which is a high indicator .. (er) nevertheless . the majority of them . specifically . seventy-six per cent (er) do not consider virtual tour as a full-fledged trip , (er) due to the lack of live communication . limited viewing space and inability to interact with other tourists . (er) the main goal of virtual tourism mentioned by participants . are expansion of destination before visiting . a way to spend your free time and have fun . and self-development .. (er) however . the majority of respondents . specifically seventy= I’m sorry . sixty-nine per cent agreed that virtual trips will be able to compete with . and replace real ones in the future .. it should be noted that young people aged from eighteen to thirty are more interested in virtual tourism .. it’s quite predictable (er) since the constant use of information technologies is more familiar to them .. (er) by and large . travel companies should pay special attention to ensuring communication between participants (er) of virtual tourism .. (er) for example . through different online chats . and concentrate on developing new special effects for deep immersion .. (er) thus . we can conclude that nowadays VR technologies are widely used in the field of tourism (er) both as a supplement and as a substitute for real travel .. (er) the crisis has created the promising opportunity for the developers of virtual tourism .. (er) there are a lot of successful projects (er) that astound the imagination and help the tourist industry to survive through hard times .. (er) the availability of  the development of virtual tourism is determined by the interests of consumers . (er) despite the fact that initially (er) mass switch to digital transformation was a first measure .. however . people do not equate virtual trips with real ones yet .. undoubtedly .. it will take a long time to reconstruct a human perception (er) but we are sure . the keyword in this situation is yet .. that completes my presentation . references I use are on the slide . (er) you are welcome with your questions thank you very much indeed .. now on to . the questions and answers session . any questions please very exciting topic .. 'cause you know . we are now  our inability to travel . and VR solution is probably the best solution  to enrich our (er) tourist experience .. how do you think . how .. (er) in general .. will the development of .. (er) VR solutions influence the total touristic market is it really a threat for tourism (em) from my perspective .. it can pull the threat to the whole tourism industry (er) because it's more convenient and even cheaper option .. it is even cheaper to take part in virtual excursion than to visit different cities . pay for tickets and (er) spend days and hours (er) but virtual trips are less authentic and (er) I know that now many people are waiting for the borders between different countries to open as soon as possible . and they want to visit different countries as they did it before .. (er) so . I think undoubtedly VR technologies will influence the further development of tourist industry (er) but the development of information technology influences all . the  business sector .. and spheres of our life and (er) this trend is going to bypass the tourist sector thank you very much  for this fine analytical question and for your extended and comprehensive answer  any other questions please yeah . thank you very much again a very quick question from me . if you don’t mind . a really quick one . have you made a virtual trip yet by any chance yes . I personally took part in several virtual excursions what was I like oh .  I . my experience is rather positive . I took part in . (em) in in a virtual tour of the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts . and they (er) have developed . (er) a really . good excursions . participants have an opportunity to communicate with each other . and (er) discuss some questions . so it was rather entertaining so you enjoyed it yes glad to hear that . if it was interactive on top of everything else . then so much the better well . any more questions from the audience please .. in that case thank you  one again for your informative report . and for your presentation 


