good afternoon dear ladies . first let me introduce myself to you . my name is  . I'm a student of Perm State Medical University named after academician Evgeniy Antonovich Wagner and I’m a student of medical faculty . today I would like to (um) to speak about one of the most actual problems to my mind this is the problem of choice of main directions in residency specializations among six-year-students of Perm State Medical University .. We consider the topic according to the next plan . first we speak about the relevance . I tell you about the situation in residency and postgraduate education in Russia . then I show you materials and methods that I used in this work then we discuss results (em) what specialties are the most important for students of our university and theme I want to finish my presentation with the conclusion where I speak aboutю what points are the most important to my mind . (em) let's begin . шt's not a secret that two years ago there was an фищдшешщт of internship and if we compare other fields not only the field of medicine, we can also see the reduction in the number of places for postgraduate education . for example (um) last year there were one hundred and seventy-one places and only thirty-nine directions among in residency in Russia . and that's why I think the actuality of choices of different specializations (em) directions is very important for medical students because according to this information they can estimate the number of places and they can count their own chances .. as an example I (um) want to speak about cardiology . I'm interested in this field and I want to become (em) a cardiologist in future . (uh) for example last year in our university there were two places in this speciality but this year we are happy to say that we have three places . of course you can say that this is not so remarkable but I think that it's a real step for improvement . so the aim of my work was to determine the level of importance of main directions in residency specializations among the six-year students of Perm State Medical University fifty seven students of our university participated in the research . all of these students (em) were students of six year and they studied at the medical faculty in our medical faculty (em) in among six year students we have two hundred and fifty students and all of them were offered to fill in online form Interest in future specialization choice in residency . and of two hundred and fifty students only fifty-seven students agreed to give answers that is twenty three percent . here you can see some questions from our form the questions were simple because (em) we wanted to give exact answers . for example what speciality have you chosen why have you chosen this speciality why have you entered Perm State Medical University and to the answer about motivation . so let's discuss the results of the research . It was found out that among students of our university the most demanded specialities are obstetrics and gynecology with cardiology that is fourteen percent . next comes pediatrics therapy gastroenterology surgery general surgery pathologic anatomy that is seven percent . the less demanded were dermatology and orthopedics functional detections support medicine and allergology that is five percent . but the less demanded were oral surgery .thoracic surgery . that is 3.5% and we were disappointed that no one of the students choose rheumatology and physiology . Here you can see the main reasons for choice . the main of them were the authority of specialization high salary (em) students choose the high salary when (em) they choose surgery . dream . easy education easy education students think that this is about therapy because if you compare a residency in therapy and surgery therapy will be easier . back up plan large number of a vacancies . family dynasty and saving lives .. And on the contrary the reasons for not choice . boring study this is not about so boring as a long study . don't want to be a doctor in a narrow speciality . so students want to become not a specialist in narrow speciality they want to be a therapy in general for example. and to work in polyclinics . Big competition this is about places in residency the risk of infections this is much about why our students haven’t chosen physiatry disappointed in medicine and the lack of knowledge .. so in conclusion (um) I would like to say that due to the limited places in residency students must study harder and they also must take part in other extracurricular activities for points in their future residency more than that it is necessary to inform students about new rules in residency and about places . also teachers can interview students in the fourth and fourth year and in the sixth year to compare their interests in medicine .. here you can see the list of references and thank you for attention . I'm ready to answer your questions 
thank you  so lets ask her some questions 
why are less so a few places for your speciality 
sorry why .  
why do you need to free ology 
oh because students in (um) sorry you mean (em) why students in the fourth year we must interview
yes
because. when we speak with the first or second year students (uh) they (um) don't have their own or choose when (er) who they want to become as a doctor and fourth or fourth or fourth year students know because (um) clinical disciplines in our university start at the fourth year and so students know much and .they know what specialities they choose 
I am not very well familiar with the system of medical education but so (uh) am I right to say (uh) that this step is optional in medical education so (uh) some students might choose not to go to residency at all 
so you are right some students can (uh) after graduating from our university (uh) they become (um) therapists . it's a general doctor and they can work only in polyclinics . but if you want to become a doctor in a narrow speciality for example, cardiology or surgery, you must enter the residency 
how do you think the recent law about the compulsory work of students as therapists (em) up to the graduation . what is the reason of this law and will it be effective 
the law about residency  
compulsory work for our students as therapist for three years 
...frankly speaking I (um) didn't think about it but.. I think that it won't be so effective . because .as a rule students have their . their own choose in. sixth year . and also as I said about a back up plan . so for example if students … (em) students can enter to another .. to another direction in a residency . for example if you didn't enter (um) cardiology you can enter general therapy .. and later you can educate as a cardiology for during two months
 any other questions. thank you.
