 …I'm   and my topic is the comparison of the attitude of the teenagers towards culture in Russian and in Great Britain . (er) the topic of the attitude to culture was especially relevant (er) in modern Russia because of scandals connected with (er) connected to the interview of Russian students who couldn't answer school questions . (er) it was necessary to understand (er) whether the fact was true . moreover the older generation is still criticizing (erm) (er) the youth supposing that they are not interested in culture and not studying it (er) at a proper level . (er) that is why it was decided to conduct a research and fi= find out whether our young gen= young people are so badly interested and informed in this area (er) or it is all stereotypical thinking . (er) for compa= for comparison was (em) it was decided to take Great Britain because it is English-speaking country with rich (er) culture . the purpose of present research work is to (em) to remind (er) which culture is better studied by students (er) from both countries and prouve that the Russian youth is more culturally culturally savvy than studen= students abroad . (er) the main task of this research work (er) are on the slide . (erm) let me define (er) cultural heritage . cul= cultural her= (er) heritage is the legacy of physical science artifacts and intangible attributes of a growth (er) of our society that is that are in= inherited from past generation maintained in the present and bestowed for the benefit of future generation . (er) as the main objective stood to break down a stereot= ster= stereotype a stereotype that teenagers of Russia understand culture worse than British young generation students became an ob= object of research and this social savvy has been chosen as the method of a research work . the pool was drawn by myself and based on other surveys . (erm) in all twen= (er) two hundred people took part in the survey . (er) age of respondents was from seventeen until twenty . (er) by results (er) of the second questions question it (er) it has been rel= (er) revealed that teenagers from Russia are less confident in their knowledge of the culture . the following question (er) has allowed understanding that the uncertainty of the Russian teenagers is the knowledge of culture appearance because they are less interested in studying it . (er) the next four questions ha= have been directed to know what direction of culture is mo= is most pop= popular among (er) youth (er) of both (er) of both countries . (er) analyzing data the conclusion has been drawn that (er) the level of ca= (er) of cultural education of British youths is higher as the youths of (er) Russia that is visible from schedules . most of them are interested in many directions of art when the youths of Russia is most developed only in literature . the last question set us (er) the purpose to learn whether it is clear from that pool that vast majority of teenagers from Russia have never heard about the action but in Great Britain teenagers have hea= heard more about it than (erm) . cross year of culture is an event which is held by the ministers of Foreign Affairs of both countries which purpo= purpose is promoting of culture in the country . according to the obtained data the purpose (er) of work did didn't manage to the to be reached . it wasn't (er) succeeded to destroy (er) a hy= hypo= hypothesis that's youths in Russia less educated . that's why there for ha= have been formulated ways by means of which it is (er) possible (er) to increase the interest of pupils in cul= in culture and to give them a chance (erm) to develop in this direction .. (er) the first point is that schools (er) should make special courses for additional training . the second point is to create a series of entertaining and inform= informative movies about cultural herita= heritage in Russia . the third is to organize monthly (er) obligatory visits to the museums and other places which (er) represent cultural value by schools . and the last but not the least is to tell as it is possible for the bigger number of people about holding such action as cross culture (er) cross year of culture . when the research work began one of the tasks was to (er) distract the stereotype (er) that Russian youth is culturally less developed . unfortunately from the obtained data it becomes obviously that the stereotype (er) has been fully confirmed con= confirmed by the research . overall considering all the ideas mentioned above it is necessary to pay attention to this problem and try to make an educational prozes= process more exciting in (er) order to engage the bigger number of teenagers in studying such subjects of culture of their native country . thank you for your attention . 
 …thank you very much . do you have any questions 
… oh I have a question . (er) tell me please do you personally take part in any projects cultural projects to raise the interest of teenagers in culture? 
 unfortunately no but I will take part in a festival (erm) connected with movies .  So yes I'm interested in it and I will . 
  have a question  I am getting you right that it is your own  research that you gathered the data yourself . how was the sample formed 
 (er) you mean (er) 
the respondents
(erm) what do you mean 
 how did you invite the respondents to answer the questions 
 I searched respondents on the internet and (er) asked them to take part in my research work .  
 taking to into account this fact how can the sample be biased
(um) … (erm)
what limitations of your sample can you name
 you mean… 
 do you see any limitations in your research . what could be improved 
 you mean in in my pool or in my all work 
 both it could be . it could be both
 okay I think that my research work can include also (er) different countries and compare with them . 
 thank you very much . do you have any other questions 
 yes I think you be waiting of I think English people we really don’t know a lot about our history about culture I think it is really dependent on what kind of school you went to if I went to a state school which is free and which you don’t have to pay for and we learnt nothing about arts or history or pretty sure anything . but the better schools like some of the private schools which you have to pay like ea= eaton for boys or some private schools for girls . they learn loads and they are really good there but I’m awful so I don’t think you should be so hard on yourself cause I think you’ll know a lot more about your your country’s history and culture than I would
 yes but in Russia it is too developed on the school on the university and so it is influenced on knowledge
 thank you very much 
