 I think before I start . it's  to check if the slide change works 
 yeah . let`s do it 
 please tell me if it does or if it doesn't ... have something changed 
 doesn't 
 probably need to share the screen . the whole screen to us .. maybe you can click on the left hand bar  see the change 
 okay let's check it again ... so 
 (uh) no
 so 
 yeah, yeah, now it does .. so let me give it a click.
 so now it has changed . right 
 no .. again .. for some second it does 
 maybe it has changed now 
 coming and going . I think if you're in a full screen mode . we are not .. so maybe that's the reason 
 Maybe it will be working now 
 and if you again click on the left hand bar .. on slide number two for example ... yeah, it works this way 
 okay 
 now we can see slide 
 so now I can have a way . my name is  and I'm a student of Perm State University and I'm really honored to present (er) you our research . which is called features of early English translation of the Grand Inquisitor .. since the beginning of the 21st century . interest in fiction translation has increased significantly .. since literary translation studies have finally become an independent science with a common vocabulary . and vast scientific methodological base .. special emphasis is placed on the studies of Dostoevsky`s works in perspective of other cultures. of different cultures. as his writings were translated several times and each edition brought something new in the literature of the target language .. and gripped readers’ attention. the Karamasov Brothers were translated into English seven times . and all publications can be divided into two groups according to the principles of the translation .. used in them (eh) and the boundary between them is drawn by Bachtin's work ‘Problems of Dostoevsky Poetics’ published in nineteen seventy-three . the last three translations by  have been studied by a number of modern scholars . but previous translations by , ,  and  have not been carefully studied .. given their goal, we believe that the study of the features of the early translation of the Grand Inquisitor is undoubtedly relevant ... for the research . we chose the translations by ,  and  as texts created within the framework of the theory of domestication strategy and . perhaps manipulative translation . which considers translation as a process of rewriting of the original text .. our research is carried out within the framework of the theory of regular correspondences by  taking into account the theoretical provisions of  ... (er) our research methodology is based on the idea of the concept as a concise importance of the idea of a literature work . which is expressed by means of language and manifests itself at all levels of poetics . organizing the semantic space of the text .. in Grand Inquisitor such an element is a macro concept of torment, which includes the main concepts all of which you may see on the screen . the study will be aimed at identifying the translation system in the selection of the appropriate language equivalents ... (er) since the time of (er) presenting research is strictly limited . we find it abuse to introduce our lexing change table by the end of our presentation or even leave its discussion to question (er) part ... (er) on the whole . the communicative intention of the original is preserved in the analyzed translation of the Grand Inquisitor .. the translations of   and   can be classified as adequate translations .. and   text that is of an accurate translation since it most fully reflects the content and linguistic form of the original in accordance . (er) with the norms of the target language ..  translation implies rewriting tendency .  that levels the language features of the original text . this translation is carried out within the framework of domestication strategy . which is characterized by the desire for clarity of the text readers and not by the recreation of the style of the writer . this is mainly manifest=manifested in the translators’ attempt to simplify the source text from (er) .. the point of view of its message and on its parts that are incomprehensible to her or to readers . (er) the two early translation notes of the Grant Inquisitor have a pronounced tendency to reduce the emotional inflection of the original and single out one semantic concept for each embodiment in the subsequent texts ... the results of following domestication strategy in  text are seen in quality and quantities cost of the translated text compared to the original . the adopted translation by  was created mainly with the help of transformation of tracing and emissions . which in invasively led to literalism of the translation and a lot of literary impact on the reader .. and this is quite of a shame since literary translation has an aesthetic impact on the reader (er) as its main goal . however, in  text Dostoyevsky`s word is fully conveyed and  ... in  translation were the features (er) that will become the principles of the Manipulative school are clearly visible . (er) there are many units of inconsistency . due to the translator's intention to convey her concept of understanding theology and not Dostoyevsky`s  position . it was the reason for her refusal to translate the text after the praise , and for the same reason her text is filled with a series of clarifications from the Old Testament . distorting the original intention of the writer which happens to be a violation of the construct of defining elements. As  said, the simplification of the original text cannot make the broadcast worthy of being called adequate because omission of all difficult to perceive (er) information will inevitably lead to significant semantic losses . and moreover, in  text one can note text forming tendencies highlighted by  .  translation. which can be characterized with unmotivated literary clarifications and omissions . can  the communicative intention of the original in a distorted form . since an important part of the brother's conversation was not translated in  translation . (er) we can see a system of translation substitutions and .. (er) .. the reason for this is that he retains the expressive reflection of the original. we consider. sorry for my mistake . we consider the  translation the most accurate and equivalent to the original . seems the translator managed to bring Dostoyevsky's style closer to the reader and show the differences in speech of  and  of English language. Dostoyevsky's original rhythm was not fully provided to English speaking audience in any of the analyzed translations . the translators prefer to reduce the series of cognate circumstances with a meaning of time . highlighting only one semantic dominant and break up long periods of sentences (er) in order to lighten the text to English rhythm. guided by their own ideas about the pace of Ivan’s speech, the translators divided the continuous text of (er) the original into several paragraphs. in  text, such a discrepancy occurs seven times, and in  and the counter text that of 15 . this example stands for rhythm violation . as Berman suggests .. although this concept is usually applied to poetry . we can speak of the rhyme with existence in Dostoyevsky's prose, which can be violated by a translator with a callous change in word order the leading principle of paragraph division was the need to separate thoughts from one another .. and (er) in order to simplify their perception and split sequences of events by transforming the text in accordance with the laws of English prose. the tendency of violation of linguistic structuring is seen in the absence of adherence to the systemic nature of original text with abundance of complex and compound sentences . which includes both the use of a particular type of sentence and the preference for a particular tense system . which is (er) not presented in the analyzed translations . based on the  provisions . we can classify the translations by inconsistency of adherence to the common translation norms ... this was the end of my presentation and now I'm here to ask to your a question .. answer to your questions 
 not a question . just a comment . but it's very clear you know what you're talking about . I would just recommend in the future trying to slow down some of the physical oratory and presentation a bit . you should have all the confidence in the world with the presentation . it can just be hard to follow along with the speeches a little bit quicker 
 yeah . that was really difficult to follow (er) the number of your ideas . I'm not sure that I got it very correctly . all of that .. if I formulate the bottom line of your presentation . (er) will be correct in going something like ..  translations differ . and some translators do that better than the others ..  is that your conclusion 
 well . yes . it is my conclusions . but I think that we should have the courage to (er) ... to say that some translations are better than the others . and sometimes these difference are based on the translation (er) strategies that were applied (er) in the times where the translations were made . and I compared (er) text of different translation scholars . which happened to be manipulative scholar and domestication strategy scholar . it's correct to say that .. and the difference between textes and (er) .. the reason why texts differ are these translating schools 
 I want to ask you about (er) this aspect of rhythm ..that you paid a lot of attention to. on basis of what can be say that c translators violate  Dostoyevsky's rhythm ... What is his rhythm then 
 well Dostoyevsky's rhythm is .. I suppose . the pinnacle Russian prose and the most (er) common thing that people come with when talking about Dostoyevsky's  unique style .. his rhythm is of compound sentences . is of complex sentences with of repetitions and .. this really creates this impression of some kind of madness which is ..(er) really compulsory to .. (er) ..  show in translations . and perhaps .. (er) the fact that translators didn't dedicate much attention to these aspects of the Dostoyevsky's works was the reason why the Dostoyevsky's novels . published before nineteen seventy-five . didn't make such impression on English readers 
 As you say . it all depends on the function that the rhythm produces . for example . what you take as madness .. (er) .. may be perceived differently in a different language culture .. and thus . the characters must speak differently with a different rhythm 
 yes because (er) the rhythm the rhythm is a way to distinguish between characters and between the ideas that the Dostoyevsky embodies in those characters . and in case we don't follow . his original attention . we cannot really give this text to .. to the readers of different culture because they just cannot really understand it .. because of this  
 so that's why maybe we need to change it 
 no . we cannot really change because (er) such things as translating norm exists . and of course . we cannot classify translation as some type of behavioral activity where everything is predetermined and with no room for personal decision-making or we simply cannot do that ..of course . but there are some norms that translators are obliged to follow and these norms (er) need..are needed to govern their intention . a decision-making in .. (er) choosing different translation transformations in order to carry the message of the original text 
 I took too much with my own questions and maybe there's somebody else would like to .. ask something 
 I have a very very short question . I hope . so . as far as I understand .. your main focus is the differences .. between these translations .. (er) and still if you .. study early English translations of .. this work .. do they share any features .. is there anything that distinguishes .. early English translators of this work from later English translators ..  is there something like a feature that all of these translations share .. that later translations don't have 
 yes . they have . and this feature is called domestication strategy .. (er) and some features of Manipulative school  of course . the Manipulative school was created (er) in  nineteen (er) ninety-three  I believe . on some forum .. made by University in European country . but (er) this was just .. (em) sorry . I kinda lost my thoughts 
 you attributed Manipulative strategy to only one of the translators  
 no. all of them have some traces of this strategy because they (em) tend to omit really important (er) parts of the text and change the word order and change . the meaning of the text by it .. and they have this approach to translation which leads to .. misinterpreting the original text (er) because of (er) because they don't really use the quotes from the Bible that Dostoyevsky uses . they tend to completely ignore the rhythm of . the characters’ speech . and . all of this triggers this Dostoevsky’s low ratings in the world of English literature 
 Again . from what I remember  the last translators you were talking about . you said that he was actually adequate .. and working better or no .. I’m mistaken .. I try to remember your last table 
 yes .  translation was the best one from the analyzed translations . but from the analyzed translations only .. (em) of course . he really conveyed this message of the original text and .. he makes a lot of successful tatlate translating . decisions . but however . sometimes he falls within this strive of breaking these long periods of sentences and (er) .. rewriting the text that was written by Dostoyevsky 
 I see (er) that was . yeah. a big discussion . thank you for your presentation .. (er) 

