 can you see the slides   yes we can   okay … (eh) good afternoon dear colleagues let me introduce myself my name is  and I’m the student of the second course of law program . have you ever thought of what influences deneath for specialists in the process of (eh) investi investigating a сase the level of crime the complexity or it’s multiplicity . and can the technical progress affect the demand for specialists . recently I have come to the conclusion that it can , that is why today I would like to present you my research (er) the topic you can see in the slide . the purpose of this study is to outline the connection between the development of I T and (er) increase in the need to attract specialists as well as to make several suggestions for improving the investigation process (eh) here you can see research methods .. in my presentation I will focus on three major issues firstly I will be looking at how the development of modern technology affects the activity of enforcement bodies and becomes a reason for attractive specialists secondly why should specialists be involved in the investigation and thirdly I will pay attention to a few suggestions that can positively affect the current situation . now we will focus on the urging problem in investigating criminal offences committed with the help of IT . statistics taken from the reports of the ministry of internal affairs of the Udmurt Republic show that (eh) in comparison with two thousand and nineteen and two thousand twenty figures for frauds (eh) committed with the help of I T soared by fifty eight point four percent while the number of theft using modern technologies also went to the same level . and this situation is typical over nearly all other regions  share a common view on the increase of cyber crime and . impossibility of their detection(eh) they claim that investigating bodies lack specialists . they only expect that is emphasis in the activities of enforcement bodies is in direction with the media, in terms of preventing crimes in cyberspace however these actions are not enough to detect these crimes and fight against them as a result a question rises. what is the reason for the increase in the number of cyber crimes and a decrease in their detection rates . in the course of the study legal scholar identify several reasons and here just the most obvious ones firstly it’s out-of-date technical equipment of investigative departments . that makes the work more complicated . secondly lack of experience in solving crimes committed in cyberspace in fact . only one percent of victims of criminal activity using I T lodge statements in the enforcement bodies as they assume that in such cases investigative basis will not be able to help them . moreover . lack of competence of local law enforcement officials is extremely important it means that  officials sick the help of employees within one body . rather than assistance of external specialists and finally it is particularly difficult to capture evidence circumstances and reconstruct the chain of consequences . as the crime takes place in the cyberspace where everything changes and disappears really fast . analysing these reasons we can understand that the current situation requires a radical intervention and there is direct dependence between the technical progress and inability of investigative bodies to detect cyber crimes . in order to increase the detection of crimes (eh) committed with the help of information technologies it is necessary to involve professionals with special knowledge in this field . those people are specialists . as (eh) the code of criminal procedure defines this key term . specialist is a person possessing special knowledge . who is engaged in legal proceedings in the manner prescribed by this code to assist in the detection fixing and with jewel of objects and documents using technical means in study of the materials of the criminal case in order to put questions to the experts as well as to clarify the bodies and the courts on matters within his competence . I suggest moving to the next point (erm) in order to make sure that it is the involvement of specialists that can change this situation for the better (eh) let’s consider possible advantages of their performance . first performance specialists have specific technical knowledge . that (eh) is required for timely identification of the facts of the crime and the establishment of the situation and circumstances. secondly. (eh)  there is a necessary training process for specialists that contribute requiring necessary knowledge to solve cases using modern technologies . thirdly specialists are able to correctly and effectively see, detect and record evidence . this precise work is associated with the most significant components of the investigation. that is the search for evidence . and fourthly specialists in the IT sphere can easily find sufficient technical reasons for choosing the most effective approach thanks to the above advantages of involving professionals with (eh) special knowledge in the .. field of modern technologies enforcement bodies will always be one step ahead of offenders . moving on to the next point (erm)  the analysis of the code and legal wars show that several suggestions could be made on how to involve specialists the first solution. is to increase the involvement of specialists by formulating the precise requirements that make the participation of specialists mandatory. secondly. we can create a program or website that will recourse the basic rules for those who have become victims of fraud or theft in cyberspace moreover it is necessary to (mm) develop advisory measures where specialists in the field of crime detection using modern technologies will be able to give professional advice and solve the problems of the citizens these measures will have to timely record the circumstances of the commission of crimes in the technical environment and evidence on on them as well as prevent for the commission. and finally since the crime is committed in the information environment it is necessary to take action in the saved space (eh) so, the check carried out by specialists of the internet can be effective (eh)  they will expose suspicious size that do not meet all the security crantily . to conclude (eh) today the society is facing an  problem of the rapid rise in the number of crimes . committed using information technologies while their disclosure is declining due to the lack of special knowledge in this field of modern technical means (eh)however there are no problems which can’t be solved and this is no exception . the study shows that there is a direct connection between a rising number of . cyber crimes and the need of specialists in investigation so. in order to increase the detection rates of crimes committed in the cyberspace it is necessary to involve specialists in this field in the investigations since it is a specialist who can improve the investigation due to professional skills and knowledge in the field of I T . in order to involve specialists in the investigation process . there are several suggestions on how to do that (eh) the activities of specialists can be expressed both in the form of direct advice by citizens and enforcement bodies as well as specially created websites and internet events and of course all these activities should be (eh) clearly regulated at the  levels so (eh) at this slide you can see the references on the study so that is all for today, thank you for your attention you are welcome with your questions...  so dear participants do you have any questions ... well so I have one .. so what is the main instrument to involve IT specialist in this type of activity that you described   (eh) thank you for your question I think that (eh) the most important (eh) way is to . regulate (eh)  the activity of specialist (eh) at the legislative levels so (eh)  it is important to (eh) formulate the .. requirements that will involve specialists .. 
 well, thank you ...   yes, I have a question so (eh) due to development of technologies    (eh) I am sorry can you repeat your question .. I can’t hear you clearly.   yes . whose role should (eh) be (eh) strengthened, the role of investigator or the law of specialist, and do you think that (eh) investigator should also have knowledge in the field of IT   that’s a good question thank you to my mind the first thing that we should do is to regulate the activities of investigators because (eh) the problem (eh) starts from (eh) the ..involving a specialist by enforcement bodies so as they choose to (eh) involve not to involve specialists but ask for help in the same level or the same body. the problem appears so they think that the process would be more tough and that's why they don't choose to (eh) ask for help of the specialists thank you

