good afternoon dear colleagues (uh) the topic of my presentation has been (uh) already named (uh) and (uh) today I’m going to speak about the research the results of the research carried out (uh) in the field of cultural linguistics . at the beginning the aim tasks (uh) the methods . will be introduced then the key theoretical points will be considered including domain notions and historical facts and . (um) after that I would draw your attention to (uh) the description and the analysis of the text of king James bible and the classification of its lexical concepts finally the conclusion on the cultural . peculiarities of this text will be (uh) drawn (uh) . nowadays cultural linguistics is one of the developing areas (uh) within the anthropocentric paradigm (uh) its goal is to identify the influence of (um) the cultures of various peoples on their language and vice versa the influence of their language on (eh) the cultures and the historical process provides us with many examples of intercultural communication (uh) which determines (uh) the development of interacting cultures . one of such examples (uh) can be seen (uh) in the translation of the bible into the English language (uh) in the seventeenth century (uh) thus the aim of our research is to identify li identify lingua-cultural peculiarities of the king James bible in comparison with the Greek original texts (uh) basing on the material of (uh) the gospel according to Mark chapters one and six . in order to achieve the aim the following tasks were set . to characterize the basic concepts of lingua-cultural analysis . to analyze the culture (uh) context of king James bible creation (uh) to reveal classify and describe (um) specific cultural units of the text and based on the data obtained (uh) . identify the main lingua-cultural features of the text so the methods applied were component analysis classification (uh) descriptive and comparative methods . (um) well (uh) the theoretical part of the research is based on the works by Vladimir Vorobyov (uh) Anna Vershnitska  .Elena Aquerina domain investigators of the cultural linguistics (uh) and also sir Frederick Jack Camian (uh) Alexy Vinogradov and Tatiana Politaeva the investigators of king James bible (um)  .the main notion chosed for the analysis of the text is lexical concept (uh) Vladimir Vorobyov describes (uh) it as a complex inter (um) level unit which is deeper than a word in its sense (uh) so it applies only some cultural connotations . the example of it can be taken from the bible (uh) the (uhm) ..the lexical concept of dove not only represents (uh) the bird (uh) in in its meaning but also is connected with the image or the holy spirit in the bible . therefore the analysis of such units in the king James bible and their comparison with the same in the Greek language (um) in the Greek version of bible now will allow to understand the specifity of the bible text (uh) in English . well . the let's start from the bible (uh) it is (uh) the sacral text of Christians (uh) the gospel according to Mark which is analyzed (uh) . is one of the four gospels (uh) which are contained in the new testament (uh) of the bible . which was written at the beginning of the first . a millenni (uh) millennium (um) in the Greek dialect koini (uh) with (uh) the spreading of Christianity the bible (uh) needed translation into (um) national languages and the first . the first attempts to do it partly (um) . into the English language (uh) were made in the fourteenth century (um) but only after the reformation (uh) there appeared full versions of the bible in English . by sixteen oh four.  there were two the most popular translation of the bible . the Geneva bible (uh) w= which is also known as the breeches bible because the translation said (uh) that's when Adam and Eve realized their nakedness they made themselves breaches so-called short trousers (um) . and another variant (uh) which is more appropriate which is more has more exotic style is the bishop's bible (uh) but at the same time (uh) this translation (um) . was much more complicated for ordinary people to understand as it has a very specific (uh) lexis lexic (uh) in this way . the problem . which was raised by king James the first at Hampton court conference (um) was to create the new translation of the bible which would be (um) which would combine everything the best from the existing versions of the bible and . (uh) eliminate outdated and inappropriate moments . so the cultural and historical pictures are reflected in the linguistic side of this text (uh) of the authorized version by king James . well . now let me turn to the practical aspect of the (um) text study . the analysis of the gospels chapters allowed to identify (uh) the main lexical concepts of the text . they were divided for four groups (uh) the first group and the biggest one is the Christian (uh) dogmatic . then (uh) the social and everyday concepts (uh) the spatial concepts and emotional ones (uh) the examples of them you can see on the slide (uh) so the . biggest group as it was said (um) is Christian notions and it is represented by the words of a Germanic origin (uh) and (uh) by the roman (uh) borrowings . and (uh) this has a double side . so on the one hand (uh) the translator is used (um) the original English roots (um) the words with the (uh) original English roots to name god . for example . god lord holy ghost they are Germanic words . but on the other hand (uh) some to name some other supernatural creatures or maybe some words of Christian dogmatic such as angels demons repentance bap= baptizing and so on (um) . the (uh) roman loans were used . so this shows that the notion is go of god wasn't new for the English culture (uh) and that’'s why the translators just didn't invent the new words they used what was before in the language . and (uh) while Christian terms had no equivalents in the (uh) culture as well as in the language that's why they were (uh) taken from the other languages (um) . also these (uh) lexeme of angel is very interesting from the point of view of translation from Greek (uh) the Greek angelus (uh) literally meaning the messenger (uh) is translated angel (uh) when it means (uh) a spirit . and it is translated as messenger when (uh) it means a person (uh) so this separation of the meanings which does not exist in the Greek text and in the Greek language (uh) depicts (uh) the English (uh) separation of the sacral and casual spheres of life (um) other differences in translation of the same word can be seen in the example (uh) of Greek (uh) erimas (uh) which (um) meaning is desert so three times this word appeared in the analyzed chapters and three times it was translated in different ways (uh) wilderness solitary place deserted place (uh) such diversity of synonyms (uh) is the attribute of elaborated context of the bible and develople developed a literal language of the times of Shakespeare Don Johnson and others to summarize I haven't I haven't said that the king James version of the bible . united a high start and the planus at the same time by the combination of native and (uh) world concepts (um) moreover it was close to the original and expressed (uh) the English understanding of the bible at the same time (uh) and finally formed the sample of the bible translation for the next four hundred years . thank you for your attention
thank you . let us ask questions
so is this version of the bible still being used 
well yes . it was a revised if I’m not mistaken in the twentieth (uh) century (uh) because well the language now (uh) changed and (uh) just the spelling was changed (uh) of some of the words . but mostly this version is considered to be (uh) the most (uh) popular and (uh) reliable I would say the Catholics . the Anglicans . the English orthodox Christians even eh use this version of the bible
when was it written
it was written in the beginning of the seventeenth century . so the king James the first (uh) established the special conference in order to revise the previous versions of bible in sixteen oh four and it was published in sixteen (uh) eleven . and I know that in Russia we even had the celebration of the four hundred years of this version of bible in twenty eleven .really
did you have to read three examples three versions yes three versions of the bible in order to write this or for example 
yes so to analyze to make this analysis I (uh) read (um) yes three versions all of this bible it was (uh) in Greek it was in a (um) well the old version (uh) of English text and the new one just in order to understand some peculiarities of the old version but in general it was quite understandable 
did you have any problems with reading the second version with like you know a little bit spelled and 
yes there were some (uh) problems about this but (uh) as you know we have a course of the history of the English language . that's why (um) that was not so difficult to understand
 what about Greek . do you speak Greek 
actually yes actually I (uh) I used to study Greek at school and (uh) and the university but not the contemporary Greek but (uh) the the one the old one (uh) the Greek in which the bible was written actually so (uh) that's why yes (uh) that was really helpful in order to analyze these texts in order to understand what is the difference between the understanding 
