 shall we move on to the next presenter . (eh)  . (eh) . will speak on the selection of physical exercises for future aviation engine designers . taking into account on their individual abilities 
 can you see the presentation 
 yes  
 yes . there is something else on the screen . yeah 
 (eh) hi . my name is  and I am a student of Perm National Research Polytechnic University . and today . my topic is the selection of physical exercises for future aircraft engine designers . depending on their personality traits (eh) . during the preparation universities should not only provide knowledge . to students but also prepare specialists (eh) . to be ready psychologically and emotional . and this work describes (eh) . the requirements for specialists and their (eh) . methods of their education by means of physical culture . and one of the actual topics at the present time is the feeling of the lack of qualified specialists . and of particular importance .. (eh) is the issue of high quality training of such . specialists .. (eh) the purpose of this work is to study the psychological characteristics of freshmen in this specialty to study the influence of sports and character and . the individual selection of sports for the character (eh) . as the result of the training of engineers are important .. for the university and the employer . we can help them choose the right activities to keep the engineers in a good mood . which will improve their performance and efficiency .. (mm) according to professiogram . design engineer must have the following qualities . (eh) spatial-figurative and logical thinking and hand-eye coordination . memory . inclination to hard work . and creative imagination .. (mm) to take into account not only professional requirements . but (eh) also . individual qualities . a survey was conducted with a  personality questionnaire which allowed us to identify personality traits that are predominant among first year students of . aircraft engine design force . the study . involved twenty six people . seventeen men and nine women . and as a result it was revealed that thirty-one per cent of students show a tendency to call themselves the alienation . fifty-seven per cent of them have not spatial thinking . thirty-one per cent are characterized by emotional instability and nineteen per cent of students are prone to dishonesty . fifty-four per cent are able to show cruelty and skepticism in cultural aspects of life . fifty per cent are distrustful and doubtful showing little concern for other people . and thirty-eight per cent of them are depressed with the predominance of bad mood .. the analysis of the research results made it possible to come to conclusions about the need to search for physical culture means to level the unfavorable . properties necessary in the professional sphere … so . for the . engineers who are uncommunicative . prone to alienation and coldness . we recommend doing team sports and outdoor games .. sport games and being a part of team and contribute to education of collectivism . and we want students … (eh) because with the teams not the not the individual players even they even if they score more goals .. (eh) for the develop . for the development . sorry . for the development of spatial thinking . and imagination . in our opinion emphasis should be placed on exercises for the education of agility .. (eh) sports games . wrestling . acrobatics alpine skiing can be recommended to sports where the situation is changing rapidly .. (eh) and final emotional stability is developed by the ability to control oneself in competitions through coherent, strict adherence to competition rules allows future engineers to overcome their tendency to dishonesty ... (eh) ... changing the environment and the types of your activity allows you to overcome depressive states . exercises are one of the best antidepressants to increase the effect of sports . it is worth alternating them and the activity should not be forced . in order to maintain . a favourable emotional background . that's all . thank you for time 
 thank you  . I would like to welcome questions from the audience . (eh) ... questions in a chat … right . (eh) well . think of the questions . I have one for now . (eh) again . that`s the question with the sample . who did you ask (eh) .. how many students or how many sources of data did you have and (eh) ... where the results of your findings come from 
 (eh) ... I questioned my group working on with group I’m studying with and ... I requested twenty-six people seventeen men and nine women and there are four sources of information and ... (eh) .  questionnaire book of … (mm) physical culture ... and .. professiogram of the aircraft engineer and ... (mm) . that's all 
 thank you 
 okay . thank you . and I have question . and just because you are a university student . and just because . the personality trait is topic of my research . I want to ask you (mm) ..  personality questionnaire shows the level of personality trait . as you know personality trait it is (mm) a basic and very . very rigid characteristics . and according to personality trait theory . they don't change during all life of a person . so why do you think that (mm) physical activity can change it 
 first of all we can't get rid of them . we just can level them .. and then .. (mm) .. I don't think we can … (eh) … we can change the … the person ... (eh) extremely .. but we can help to educate ... (mm) more .. more professional specialists (mm) .. 
 so (mm) . in this situation we can say (mm) . not about changing of personal trait . but we can change about (mm) emotional sphere yes we can change about (mm) .. we can say about change mood maybe . but not about personality trait .. thank you 
 thank you for the questions and thank you for keeping detailed answers 
