good morning my name is  and today I would like to tell you about creative agen= agencies . but before we start I would like to ask you do you like films as for me I really like watching the broadcast when we don’t know what film we be will seen next . however publicity still to be the main the drawbacks of the television . so accepting the fact of annoying publish annoying videos existing tried to change my attitude about them . so and I start to watch these videos as independent short movies . and I was surprised the full of the creativity the full of creativity that had been there . since that moment I since that moment I start I began to wonder agencies that create a concept of alternative ways of prom= promotion products service and are called creative . when I googled it when I googled what creative agency actually is I found out that a lot of research have gave= given me information that creative agency is a synonym of an advertising agency . however that’s not actually true . (er) the main difference between them is like (er) creative agency (er) create concept of marketing strategy and an advertising agency (er) implement it implements it .. beside if you will look at project that creative agency have done you’ll see that this is something more that just create provide an outside point of view of selling the products and service .. so to better understand what creative agency actually is I decided to find the best creative agency as an example . however when I found out lot of ratings and everywhere not names but even style and service were different . and I decided to make a research to understand (er) how to understand to compare best creative agencies and to understand maybe some patterns and on them . why some ratings choose this or that (er) those agencies are the best . and I used ready mark rating (er) ready mark ratings it’s a web tool of designer in (er) web journal medium and say hi it’s design online magazine too . so let’s look how and I understand I found out very interesting pattern so first let’s look how creative agency enter the market . (er) successful freelance designer that have a lot of orders decide to make an agency and join force with other designer . (er) so they see their business as (er) the chance to self-expression and making art experiments . so they’re if so web website of a creative agency is always something like a visit card . and this agency are very bright designed with a lot of playing of fronts and like that . however when after several years of work creative agency stop to contact with freelancer and hire their own stuff to maintain to make (er) to decrease the risk of substandard product . and that’s why they need to have the constant the constact (er) .. afflicts of customer but they their clients that young creative agencies has it’s museum and theaters they can they can’t get enough project and orders . here is the crucial step in creative agency’s life . we have to understand we choose a new (er) new vectors of development to int= to attract new customers and new project . beside if you will see if you look at new web site they have to (er) beside (er) creative agency has to change their style too . because the bold design (er) it’s not for for big companies that have a lot of money and that for example as Unilever . they see (er) (mhm) the grace the not so bright design as a symbol of professionals . that’s why (er) we prefer damer ideas of creative agency that than the younger creative designers . (er) but some agencies (er) may it (er) this is this website of pe= of creative people agency that made two website . this is the great one the gray one made for customer . it doesn’t have bright bright color like that . and this one is for designers because young designers want to bring want to make experiments and to bring their own great ideas so that’s why they are looking for something bright . and these two website (er) help to find new customer and to find good designers . (er) the oldest and the proved strategy of creative agency is to become a marketing agency . it means that (er) they made full ser= marketing service from creating concept to (er) promote fro= using communication channel . (er) their website are u= are all often looks like fashion journal page . (er) oven to the new technologies in internet development lot of creative agency hard (er) hired programmer to make (er) it solution (er) of a problem . it so a lo= so today there are a new pattern that creative agency start to became a digital agency . so they made websites and program . and they have very big advantages (mhm) they have comparing comparing with other agencies the IT companies creative digital agency has very (er) the main their main advantages that they can make very interesting interface that can can provide other companies that are focused on (er) programming and code development . and this is the website of green mars creative agency so it’s like a digital agency . and it so you can see that it looks like they have (er) the text of console typography and HTML-code . looks like HTML-code and they provide not only IT solution but also a design solution . as design (er) studio because they have a lot of designers in their stuff . ok and the last the last trend of creative agency development it’s become a VR agency . it means they want to surprise customers they use VR they use virtual additional and mixed realities technologies . so this is the depar= this is the project of department VR agency in was the first full VR presentation of something in the world and . it was it was in Moscow . so it is great that in Russia VR technology are very developing . and to sum up I would like to say that creative agency it’s very competitive (er) it is too it’s very risky business because you have to be in trend all the time have to study new new fashion trends and stuff like but the success of creative agency depends of good (er) of good strategy so like that . come on if you have a questions I’m ready to answer . that’s all
thank you very much
I have a question . I know a term like guerilla marketing another term
real marketing
guerilla g=
goreal
guerilla marketing
honestly no I haven’t heard
it’s like when a company uses not appropriate (um) pictures and for example provocative but they attract us and we pay attention to such appetizing  and do you think this strategy is normal or it’s not ethical
I think every time of every type of publicity even it’s (eh) provocative publicity it it’s a good it’s publicity because in immediate time people will think about it people will discuss it and it works very well as a bad promoting
but sometimes it irritates us I don’t know sometimes it’s it irritates
yes but you will speak about that it irritates you .. and yes you will think about that all and this publicity this Dobriy Sad juice I hate it because Baskov .. sing very very loud but you will think about it and then you will come to the shop you will see okay this is one this is other oh this is Baskov juice and you will buy it it’s just what you know
so there is no prosperity without publicity
no of course yeah but (um) even publicity can have different types for example you can come in the sh= (um) come in the store you wi= you can see som= various some group of customer that like innovative products and they will come in the shop and say oh I haven’t tried this milk maybe this milk have another gu= maybe it’s new con=
tasty tasty ta= tasty
maybe it’s tasty .. but publicity it’s very important to promote and have success in the market
what about idea generation ideas and generation this informative technologies what do you think
new technology so the (er) one of the best way to surprise us is to use new technology up to date technology as VR reality and (er) as VR reality .. yes may existing new technology
it’s just you’re saying reality reality basically right now
yeah
so VR technology is a new one so it’s (er) it surprises so it’s a great way to generate new ideas to find something sewers using this technology . because for example if you will make publicity on the TV or if you make the same publicity on VR (er) format it will be
my question is about (er) artificial intelle= intellect
intelligence
intelligence
intel= (um) yes
so the main I think that the main role of ideas creating is is a person cause (er) a person mind can cha= can cha= take different ideas and to make something something . I don’t know I can’t say but artificial technologies help us very much for example some designers use the technology of random picture generator then they just switch it on 
spam
not spam they just like switch it on and they ge=
it is example
it generates new picture and you . it helps you to generate new ideas
