Introduction
Background. The problem of striking the rights balance between private, public and societal incentives in copyright on the Internet manifests in the correlation between fair use as a societal incentive and the right to file a copyright claim as a private incentive. The problem of abuse of the right to file a copyright claim on Youtube by big companies, which are respective owners of the content, that was used by a content creator, is considered one of the most controversial issues in the USA. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: judicial and non-judicial ways of preventing this abuse in Russia. Both approaches have the goal of protecting copyright in common, but their main difference is the first one proposes an amendment in Russian Civil Code and the second one proposes changes in Youtube’s copyright system.
Problem Statement. The paper is aimed to reveal the methods of striking the rights balance between private, public and societal incentives in copyright on the Internet in order to find solutions to vital problems of copyright, such as infringing on the right to fair use. In compliance with the purpose of the study the research project objectives are:
1. Examination of approaches to definitions of private, public and societal incentives in copyright;
2. Determination and analysis of methods of striking the rights balance between these incentives in the Russian Federation;
3. Examination of impact of copyright abuse on the rights balance between these incentives;
4. Analysis of legislative as well as law enforcement systems of protection of copyright in the Russian Federation; 
5. Conducting comparative legal research of the Russian Federation and the United States of America’s legislatures in the sphere of works of science, literature and art on the Internet. 
Delimitations of the Study. The research project is primarily focused on the analysis of legislative as well as law enforcement systems of protection of copyright in the Russian Federation and in the United States of America. Due to the differences in legal systems and the level of development of copyright in different countries, the outcomes of the rights balance between private, public and societal incentives in copyright considerably vary. Furthermore, the delimitation of the study is the lack of a consensus on the terms private, public and societal incentives in copyright.
Professional Significance. The paper features a multifaceted research on private, public and societal incentives in copyright, their correlation and crossover, and methods of striking the rights balance between private, public and societal incentives in copyright on the Internet. The analysis of the current situation of copyright abuse on the Internet is of importance as it is the result of a bigger problem in legislation on striking the rights balance between private, public and societal incentives in copyright. 
Definitions of Key Terms. Private incentive means interests of subjects of civil law relations, such as individual citizens, legal entities etc., which are centered around satisfaction of personal interests.
Public incentive means governmental interests that aim to provide effective protection for societal and private incentives.
Societal incentive includes interests of society in access to education, research and information.
Fair use includes such use by reproduction in copies or phonorecords or by any other means specified by that section, for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research, which is not an infringement of copyright.
Literature review
Over the last couple of decades, the scholars’ interest in problems in copyright law has been increasing steadily. The problems raised in the researches also tend to become more and more diverse, from striking the rights balance between private, public and societal incentives in copyright on the Internet to analysis of the current copyright protection systems.  There is a trend to narrow the problems to particular aspects of correlation between private, public and societal incentives and functioning of fair use doctrine.
A.M. Abdullazyanova puts into perspective the legal doctrine and legislation of copyright, where much attention is paid to the protection of the interests of rightsholders of works of science, literature and art. However, in order to improve the level of education and culture of the whole society, the author points out multiple methods that using the works by an unlimited number of persons without the permission of the rightsholders. 
To identify the characteristics of civil means of free use of works the author focuses on the legal nature of the free use of works and the features of civil legal means in the theoretical aspect. A.M. Abdullazyanova concludes that specific features and types of civil means of free use of works are revealed in order to determine the possibilities of using the works of rightsholders by an unlimited number of persons.
Erwin Chemerinsky presents a study on the balancing copyright protections and freedom of speech and focuses on the issue of non-constitutionality of copyright extension act in the USA. The author points out that copyrights restrict the ability of people to propagate information and exercise their right to free speech, and when content is protected by copyright, there are legal limits to use and distribution of that content. Copyright laws create cause of action, for money or even for an injunction, to publish speech. Any law that authorizes civil suits for speech activities infringes the First Amendment unless it is sufficiently justified. The copyright statute by putting limitations on self-expression and creativity, contradicts the statute of free speech.
J. Lipton outlines the issue of over-propertization of valuable information in the modern world. This entails limitations to private intellectual rights through implementation of fair use doctrine or restrictions on the scope of these intellectual rights. The author proposes utilizing property concept and applying it to intellectual property in order to strike the rights balance. As the traditional concept of property has always focused on maintaining the rights balance, J. Lipton deems it justifiable to use in the sphere of copyright. This new system could be created with governmental involvement which would manifest in monitoring and enforcing the excersice by information property holders of their public duties. In any event, the author determines that where a government has created, or supported the creation of, private rights in information, it should be prepared to create and support concurrent public duties.
N. Netanel’s research describes the doctrine of the fair use in the United States of America using a theoretical approach and a substantial amount of court practice on this issue. Fair use doctrine allows to determine the boundaries of the possibility of legal unlimited use of works, without this doctrine the natural right of a person (copyright) to create would be a violation. The U.S. Copyright Act in section 107 proclaims the obligation for courts in each dispute regarding fair use of works to conduct a detailed analysis to determine whether it is fair use using four main factors and additional ones given by the court itself:
purpose and nature of use, including commercial or non-commercial educational purposes;
nature of the work;
the volume and materiality of using part of the work in relation to the full work;
the impact of the use of the work on the potential market or value of the original work.
In addition, the author discusses the development of US copyright law, for example, the United States Copyright Act reflected two opposing paradigms: market and transformative. The market paradigm regards fair use as an abnormal exclusion from exclusive rights and in recent years has increasingly lost its relevance in court. The transformative paradigm is based on the how much of the original content the person using and how they changed it to create a new work. Considering the growing popularity of the transformative paradigm, the first factor in establishing fair use (the purpose and nature of use, including commercial or non-commercial educational goals) becomes effective when the dispute is resolved, and the fourth (the effect of using the work on a potential market for or the value of the original work), on the contrary, does not.
C. Geiger’s study entertains the idea of promoting creativity through copyright limitations in the concept of exclusivity in copyright law. Creativity is usually promoted by exclusive rights, not by limitations, but the study states that by limiting the copyright holder to certain ways of copyrighted content use, it gives way to other content creators to express themselves. The author reflects on the limitations and exceptions to copyright from the perspective of the creators and their interests and, on this occasion, to express some free thoughts concerning the principle of exclusivity in copyright law.
D. Kotzeva’s research explores public and private interests in copyright law taking into perspective two opposing manifestations of private interest. On one hand, creativity, science and democracy are underlined as the first group and property and market are underlined as the second group. Considering works of science, art and literature contribute a great deal to cultural development of a country, the market power of the copyright owner, combined with property aspirations prevents the free flow of information and impedes learning. The article outlines several legal and social institutes, such as fair use doctrine, free speech, public domain etc. All of these restrictions of exclusive rights are highly significant in their role of realizing societal incentive. D. Kotzeva concludes that challenges of the new information society require respect and better understanding of the public purpose of copyright. D. Kotzeva critically reviewed market and property considerations as ways to obscure the democratic goals of the Copyright Law of the United States of America.
L. J. Gibbons and X. L. Wang analyze the phenomenon of striking the rights balance among private incentives and public fair uses in the United States and China. They note that any intellectual property, that is of some commercial interest to the subjects of civil legal relations, should comply with the system of protection of intellectual property rights, based on the principle of a balance between the need for creative work and economic investments to achieve the desired level of creativity in any result of intellectual activity. Most intellectual property rights systems are essentially the same in comparison with all existing industries. However, this leads to inefficiency of these systems in some industries, which may require more or less protection of intellectual property rights than others. States that seek to establish a legal regulation that would correct the resulting inefficiency by their actions can cause long-term consequences regarding the quality or quantity of new products of intellectual activity.
The authors illustrate that on the one hand, the establishment of a more loyal legal regulation in the field of protection of intellectual property rights may lead to the emergence of defects in the field of intellectual property. The authors consider, for example, transactional costs when determining the copyright holder as one of these defects, because negotiating and concluding a license agreement on such terms, that would not be to the counterparty, is cost-effective. On the other hand, restricting protection of intellectual property rights and introducing fair use doctrine may worsen the economic incentive to create new content.
According to the study, it is essential to consider the balance of interests in the process of legally establishing a just intellectual property rights protection.
Methods
The methodological base of the study will consist of general scientific and special legal methods.
General scientific research methods include dialectical methods of cognition, including methods of analysis and synthesis, structural, systemic, and functional methods. General scientific methods will allow a full and comprehensive consideration of the problems associated with ways to striking a balance of private, public and societal interests in copyright on the Internet.
Specific legal methods include formal legal, descriptive, comparative legal, statistical and others. These methods will be used to study private, public and societal interests in the information and telecommunication network "Internet" in the context of copyright on the Internet.
For examination of the rights balance, various specific methods will be used. The first method is analytical, which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation, regulating copyright, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of civil law. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of using someone else’s content and to identify the legal mechanisms of protecting copyright in order to serve private, public and societal interests in this area. The comparative legal method helps to make qualitative comparison of the Russian and the US legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of copyright in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations holder and Internet users, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of copyright or the purpose of striking the rights balance of private, public and societal incentives. 
Results anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of striking the rights balance among private, societal and public incentives and the data on the abuse of copyright show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of academic studies reveals that there are different approaches depending on the legal system as well as different terms considering types of interests in copyright. Researchers view it differently and regard it as a problem of only public and private interest, but some researchers emphasize that there are also societal interests. Considering societal interests individually gives the perspective of differentiation and allows to view public interests as merely governmental. Achieved outcomes display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the role of fair use, freedom of speech, the principle bona fides etc.
The data helps to outline results in terms of legal practice and copyrights dispute resolution as it shows that courts view the problem of copyright abuse as a matter of striking the rights balance differently from country to country. The results support the idea that fair use is not maintained well. It suggests that while being a form of societal incentive it also can infringe private interests. The data proves that it is essential to consider striking the rights balance in the process of dispute resolution.
Preliminary analysis of the doctrine and the data allows to determine the definitions of private, societal and public incentives in copyright law, methods of creating the appropriate balance between these incentives. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the current research allow to infer that there are multiple intricate approaches to striking the rights balance of private, public and societal incentives in copyright on the Internet. This does not follow from previous researches on this topic due to the lack of information on the legal nature of every incentive. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of the societal incentive apart from public. Thus, there are three incentives. Private incentive means interests of subjects of civil law relations, such as individual citizens, legal entities etc., which are centered around satisfaction of personal interests. Public incentive means governmental interests that aim to provide effective protection for societal and private incentives. Societal incentive includes interests of society in access to education, research and information.
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to academic research on copyright protection. The potential for this research lies in enriching the methodology, which can be achieved through the US flexible fair use doctrine theory application and by incorporating comparative research method. As far as the private incentive is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analyzing the current situation on social media platforms.
All this determines the solution of the problem of striking the rights balance of private, public and societal incentives in copyright on the Internet. It plays a fundamental role in protecting copyright and contributes greatly to further practice. I hope my research proposes an effective solution to creating the appropriate rights balance.

