Introduction.
Background
There is currently the growing interest in the legal entities studying. Theorists hold quite various doctrines about the individual executive body`s liability. The key problems in the theory of liability concern the quilt determination. This issue is of substantial significance for the company founders. Now our realization is gaining ground notwithstanding, the problem did not disappear. While the debate over the problem seems to gain popularity there are several reasons to focus more attention on the decision making person. Tempting, though, as it seems, it is impossible to employ the procedure of punishment to the person mentioned.
From the participants of business oriented to creation of large business structures or the organization of an effective management system in already existing holdings, interest in institute of managing organization is especially high. It is proved by the fact that, proceeding from the analysis of domestic and foreign experience, the authority delegation of individual executive body of managing organization provides high degree of inspectability of a business activity and also the most effective managements of controlled enterprises and the companies that cannot but be reflected in the growing liquidity indicators of holding.
Objective of this research is the elucidation of institute of managing organization in a management system economic society and also consideration of the questions connected with legal status of the managing organization performing the functions of individual executive body of the legal entity and measures of liability for damages caused to economic society. Thereby the interest of owners of large businesses who are interested in entering of a similar management system in structure of the business is provided.
For goal achievement of this research the following tasks were set:
•	To determine features of legal status of managing company as individual executive body of economic society;
•	To reveal features of civil responsibility of managing company as individual executive body of economic society;
•	To analyze and determine the main problems of application of provisions of the civil legislation to this management system economic society;
•	To allocate the main legal problems which the economic societies having a similar management system face by the analysis of court practice;
•	To allocate the main gaps of legislative regulation of institute of managing organization;
•	To offer versions of the decision on elimination of gaps of legislative regulation of this institute.
Thus, accomplishment of objectives will allow to study systematically designated research subject which, undoubtedly, is the significant and deserving close attention from scientists-jurists and practicing lawyers.
Problem Statement
Practice of involvement of a management company for accomplishment of functions of chief executive officer (director) is widespread in Russia. This institute is rather attractive to participants as the transparent and strong management tool by society and its assets. Besides, managing directors are the traditional tool of a management in holding structures.
Nevertheless, this management model is insufficiently fully researched by economic society from the legal point of view as the management company which performs functions of chief executive officer of economic society has the features of legal status and also there are features of involvement of management company to liability for damages caused to economic society. Not the complete study generates ambiguous court practice and also misunderstanding of specifics of this institute among holdings which have a similar management structure, the efficiency of their business activity respectively decreases.
Need of transition to new management models arises in process of development of the entities, expansion of borders of business, increase in complexity of the organization of its business environment. In addition to increase in company performance, creation of holding allows:
•	to increase investment attractiveness of affiliated enterprises and holding in general as investors give preference to the companies with bigger transparency and accurate corporate management;
•	to provide controllability of affiliated enterprises according to the development strategy of holding;
•	to reduce risk of hostile takeover;
•	to transfer operational management of holding from the owner manager to hired management when preserving for itself good control of assets.
As the most effective method of management of large business structure the managing company as which the main society can act performing functions of individual executive body of the legal entity in the organizations under control to the main society, possesses the highest degree of efficiency and the highest rates of auditability.
To such images, similar management model most is suitable for maintenance of stability of the representative of large business and also allows to exercise most effectively control of activities of the managed organizations and to perform management of these organizations.
Delimitations of the Study
The object of a research is the regulations of the Russian legislation regulating powers, legal status and responsibility of individual executive body of the legal entity and also regulating activities of the managing organization performing given power.
Subject of this research is the institute of the managing organization performing powers of individual executive body of the legal entity.
The structure of the work is represented by an introduction, two chapters, divided into paragraphs, conclusion and list of references.
In the course of the research of the designated subject the questions adjoining it concerning governing bodies of the legal entity, their legal status, liability for damages caused to economic society will not be raised. In the context of the above-designated subjects, the purpose and research problems consideration of the problems connected with other governing bodies of the legal entity and also their interactions in process of management of an accounting entity isn't reasonable. Other governing bodies interact with managing organization as with individual executive body, this interaction is regulated by the legislation and also internal documents of the organization.
The holding structure and also types of management in holding structure, the type of subordination and other questions which are directly connected with the organization of large business as the structural unit participating in process of economic interaction and performing a business activity as the holding as a business organization type as business structure, is considered from the point of view of economy, that is scientists-economists is not subject to consideration.
Internal documents of the organizations having a similar management system as the main research is based on the analysis of the legislative massif which regulates institute of managing organization are not subject to a research.
Thus, during the research the questions which concern interaction of other governing bodies of the legal entity, essence and content of holding structure as the independent participant of the economic relations and also separate acts of the organizations having a similar management structure which do not concern a provision of individual executive body of the legal entity and limits of his responsibility will not be raised.
Professional Significance
This research will allow to estimate the risks connected with delegation of power of individual executive body of the legal entity of managing organization and also will clear the questions concerning legal status of managing organization that is necessary in case of signing of the contract on management of the legal entity. As the additional considered aspect the legal nature of such agreement as it directly influences nature of the developing legal relationship will be indirectly designated, determines essence of these legal relationship and also regulations to which the relations of participants of this agreement will be regulated.
In addition this research will allow to determine a circle of responsible persons to whom in case of causing to society of losses, such society will be able to make the claim for their compensation.
The conclusions received during studying of the designated subject have huge value not only for businessmen and the practicing lawyers, but also for the legislator as the array of the laws regulating institute of managing company is small and is not capable to give accurate instructions applicable to all aspects of activities and functioning of such management system.
Thus, conclusions of this research have huge practical applicability as the effective management of holding structure and also, respectively, results of a business activity of the participant of the economic relations who uses this management model depends on qualification of separate aspects which are connected with the managing organization performing functions of individual executive body of the legal entity.
Literature Review. The subject of this research, as well as its separate aspects, is considered by many scientists-jurists. The set of scientific articles, theses and monographs, both foreign, and domestic authors, is written on a subject of this research. However to clear direct participation of certain authors in studying of a problem of the provided research, it is worth allocating the following components of the designated subject, namely: legal status and responsibility of individual executive body of the legal entity, legal status and responsibility of the person performing functions of individual executive body of the legal entity and also the questions which are directly relating to institute of managing organization.
Dividing the provided subject into several components, we can allocate a contribution of certain scientists to degree of readiness of the designated problem. "Legal status of individual executive body of the corporate entity" is the main block which in addition to the questions concerning functions and a provision of this body includes as well the questions concerning institute of managing organization.
Legal status of individual executive body of the legal entity was researched by both foreign, and domestic scientists-jurists, the set of works, both modern, and classics of civil law is devoted to this subject. D.I. Meyer, I.A. Pokrovsky, P.P. Tsitovich, G.F. Shershenevich were engaged in the specified subject. During the Soviet period works of such scientists as O.S. Ioffe, B.B. Cherepakhina were devoted to it. This subject develops in the modern period in works of D.V. Lomakin, S.D. Mogilevsky, I.S. Shitkina and other researchers. It is also necessary to note interesting, though not indisputable, the monograph by E.V. Tychinskaya. The concept of fiduciary legal relationship, as such, was studied in V.A. Syrbo's work.
In addition to the analysis of directly legal status, scientists carefully researched the nature and a design of the contract between the economic society and the person performing functions of its executive body. This subject was considered in the works by V.A. Belov, A.A. Silin, G. Rubeko, E.R. Martirosyan, E.A. Sukhanov and others. Also many authors, in particular T.M. Zvezdina, A.V. Bogdanov, E.A. Sukhanov, considered a question of a possibility of qualification of the agreement from managing organization as agreements of subordination.
As the independent problem considered by scientists it is also necessary to allocate differentiation of the concepts "individual executive body" and "person performing functions of individual executive body" of the legal entity. According to opinion of most of jurists, these concepts can't be recognized identical as it contradicts the nature of corporate legal relationship. Such conclusions were drawn in works of Bratus S.N., Zaytseva V.V., Zinchenko S., Kazachansky S., Zinchenko O. and the Mogilev S.D.
The institute of managing organization, its legal status and responsibility to the legal entity at which it performs functions of individual executive body was researched by O.V. Osipenko, I.S. Shitkina, T.M. Zvezdina, A.V. Bogdanov and others. In works of the above-named jurists the prospects of change of the legislation regulating institute of managing organization, the legal nature of the agreement signed with managing organization and also efficiency rate of similar management model holding structure from the point of view of a corporate law are considered.
Methods
This part of proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out the study giving special emphasis to analysis of data collected. There is a great variety of means at our disposal for investigating the individual executive body issue. In the present inquiry we will adopt: juridical and statistical method, legal analysis method, deductive method. There is an astonishingly broad contemporary consensus on the need for a single framework for the problem of liability in the corporate law. The strategy used aids in organizing the existing knowledge on the case. The issues are many and actually have achieved a kind of urgency in our times.
An emphasis will be put on repeating material with the intention of facilitating learning and remembering. Moreover, we are going to propose a study’s research design that will allow to decide on the nature and type of the study (for example we will use the method of case study) and the kind of data (evidence) that will be sought or collected in order to meet the study’s objectives. In other words, it determines the direction that the study will take and the particular means to obtaining valid results. The chosen research design will build on qualitative methods of data collection and analysis. In our case, this kind of design will be referred to as a “mixed-methods” design. Both types of methods are believed to complement each other in mixed methods studies. In order to organize data, a password-protected excel spreadsheet will be used throughout the collection process.
Results Anticipated
During this research first of all will search and the overview to literature on the announced subject and also the careful analysis of the chosen sources is run, the choice of the most modern researches devoted to the chosen problem will be made. After consideration of the researchers of conclusions containing in works own line item will be offered and own conclusions, proceeding from tasks of this research, on the questions raised earlier are designed.
The questions of rather legal status of individual executive body of the legal entity and his liability for damages caused to this legal entity and also legal status and responsibility of the managing organization performing management functions by the legal entity will be researched. Therefore, the risks connected with an authority delegation of management of the legal entity of managing organization will be also considered and also the aspect of efficiency of similar management model is briefly touched.
Conclusions of the provided research will be based not only on already available works of scientists-jurists, but also the analysis of court practice on this subject, conclusions of the supreme courts and their legal line items will be provided, the existing business structures with the similar organization of management will be considered.
Following the results of a research will the concept on elimination of gaps of legislative regulation of institute of managing organization is offered, the characteristic of legal status and a scope of responsibility for the losses caused to the managed person and other agreement party of management is provided.
Conclusion
Proceeding from the fact that the individual executive body and the person performing its functions are the different legal phenomena legal status of these persons will significantly differ, as well as their legal personality. In addition, managing company, being a legal entity, will bear stipulated by the legislation civil responsibility as individual executive body that generates uncertainty of a circle of responsible persons.
Comparison of amount of powers, efficiency of functioning and possibility of control of activities will illustrate that the managing director of the organization is an optimal solution of transformation of a management system for the representative of large branched business. In addition the managing company isn't the main society, and is a managing person that generates other model of the relations with structures under control to it, than the main society – subsidiary.
