Apparently, first of all, it is significant to clear up definitions used in the project proposal and distinguish some concepts and terms from one another. 
The concepts of a sole executive body in countries with common law system and civil law system are different. In states with case law system the status of manager is divided into several positions such as, for instance, a chief executive body (CEO), a chief financial body (CFO), which sound familiar even for non-specialists in law. In accordance with the Russian legislator’s legal position, a single executive body is a person with a wide range of authorities including executing, financial, administrative and other functions. 
As a matter of convenience, the terms a sole executive body, a single executive body, a chief executive officer (CEO), director, president are considered as equivalent and used in the same meaning. 
Background. Governing bodies of a company, particularly a sole executive body (a director, a president, etc.), have the special status which is expressed in representing the will of the legal entity. In compliance with it, law of many countries is provided with an institute of a sole executive body’s responsibility for unfair and unreasonable (according to the Russian legislation and doctrine) actions or inactions which have caused losses to a company. 
The possibility of bringing a single executive body to civil responsibility by recovery of civil damages has rather recently existed in the Russian legislation. Simultaneously, despite more detailed regulation has been enshrined in 2013 in the corporate legislation, the opportunity to bring governing bodies to liability for damages of a business number of issues had still not been resolved. For example, there is still a problem of damages recovery from shadow directors, i.e. persons who actually operate the legal entity without being appointed to any position (first of all, it concerns about major shareholders or participants).
This leads to the phenomenon that damages from managing directors in a judicial proceeding are hardly claimed despite a large number of claims. Thereof the relevance of the research consists in the fact that it is necessary to analyse the problematic issues arising in practice at bringing a sole executive body to responsibility and to develop ways of their decision.
Problem Statement. The corporate relations arising at bringing sole executive body to liability are as an object of a research. The subject of research is the features of a single executive body responsibility for damages caused to a company.
For the reason that a great deal of disputed issues are still unresolved the main goal of research is to point out the problems arising at bringing of a sole executive body to liability for damages caused to a company for the analysis of ways of their decisions.
For achieving the goal the following tasks have been defined:
1) to investigate the legislative provisions regulating legal status of a company’s single executive body in Russian and foreign systems of law to carry out its comparative characteristic;
2) to analyse the objective and subjective aspects of a CEO actions (inactions) which have caused damages to a company;
3) to develop ways of filling the gaps and the solution to the questions arising when recovering damages for a sole executive body of a legal entity.
Delimitations of the Study. In virtue of the fact institutes of a single executive body and the responsibility of governing bodies of a company are extensive, the project proposal is dedicated to researching of a single executive body responsibility for damages caused to a company. The responsibility of a collective executive body or other types of responsibility of a CEO such as criminal or administrative liability will not be examined.    
Professional Significance. The conclusions of the project proposal can be utilised by many groups of specialists in law. Firstly, practical valuation for the legislator is in summarizing key problems which may arise from application the provisions of corporate law about a CEO responsibility and in improvement of legislation. Secondly, answers to the discussions about the topic could be helpful for practitioners in corporate law sphere. Thirdly, the issue raised is said to be scientifically interesting from the viewpoint of various scholars investigating  the field of the study and could be the basis for theorists’ further works.
Literature Review 
The following review will explain the search process in reviewing the existing literature on the institution of responsibility of a sole executive body in a company. Numerous attempts have been made by British, UN’s and American scholars to give a broader theoretical basis to the research of a sole executive body’s responsibility and a considerable amount of a valuable work on this phenomenon. On the other hand, in the Russian Federation researches in this field of law have rather recently started – only since end of the ninetieth years of the twentieth century, when special laws such as Federal law about limited liability companies and Federal law about joint-stock companies have been came into legal force. Despite this fact, several theories are advanced to explain the nature of responsibility of a sole executive body in a company. A.Kuznetsov, I.Shitkina, S.Budylin, D.Stepanov are recognised scholars which involve in the process of searching solutions to arising problems.
The actual history of studies on responsibility of a sole executive body for the damages caused to a company has started since this institution came into existence in Great Britain in nineteenth century. Initially, the factors of taking actions by a CEO which caused damages had not been subjected to conscious scrutiny. The discussion of issues had got more specific when researchers from different countries became interested in this problem. 
In case law system the responsibility of a CEO is connected with the phenomenon of fiduciary duties. Flannigan noted the nature of this phenomenon and highlighted that the fiduciary jurisdiction was designed to manage the way how self-interested conduct could be disciplined in limited access arrangements by bringing  civil liability. Fiduciary relations could take place in interaction between directors and their companies, agents and their principals, solicitors and their clients, etc. Сonspicuously, fiduciary duties are result of a whole spectrum of relations constructed on fiduciary element and arise not only in the field of corporate law. Miller allocates approximate approaches to fiduciary liability which are status-based approach and fact-based approach. In accordance with the model of status-based fiduciary relationships, new categories of relationships are considered to have fiduciary status by virtue of their similarity to a category with established status. Under the second approach, relationships are recognized as fiduciary ones on a case by virtue of their possession of certain indications of fiduciary relationships.
In view of this, it is considerable to allocate the Marcoux stance’, who believes that fiduciary jurisdiction relies on the stakeholder theory. This theory was formulated in conditions of different stakeholders (owners) interests existence which are contradictory to one another. Due to that, the opposite interests of relations parties (including corporate relations - between directors and a company) may lead to damaging to a company. Consequently, the fiduciary duties had been designed to counterbalance inverse interests and to observe balance of parties’ interests.
In the Russian Federation the legal situation is quite different. Neither the legislator nor scholars do not know the idea of fiduciary liability in corporate relations. In spite of this, the responsibility is bringing on the assumption of breaching particular duties which a sole executive body should bear. These duties are prescribed by the Judgement of the Russian Federation’ s Supreme Arbitration Court and mean the sole executive body’s conduct in compliance with rationality and fairness. The criteria of rational and fair the CEO’s actions are in paragraphs 2-3 of the Judgement. 
Despite seeming certainty of requirements, the problems are on the outside. Kuznetsov underlined that there is no term of wrongfulness in regulation of the CEO responsibility even though it has considerable importance for determination of guiltiness in actions (inactions) of a sole executive body.
In this regard, there is a rational kernel in analysing and, perhaps, trying to include provisions of fiduciary responsibility in the Russian legislation. 
Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out the study. These are following:
comparative method,
historical method,
technical method,
analysis.
It stands to mention that the legislation of the Russian Federation has undergone vital change after the Dissolution of the USSR in 1991. In the legal regulation of corporative relations the key alteration was related with coming into existence of commercial companies (and bodies governing them). To examine the emergence of that change, the historical method will be the best option.
There is an indefinite multiplicity of ways to treat a CEO’s responsibility which urges scholars to seek a unified framework. In conditions of  Russian legal reality, comparative method should be applied in carrying out the studies of theorists for the following reasons. Firstly, the method to a certain extent is an evolving one because of building relations with other states and processes of globalization running which are taken into account while Russia has been forming up its legal system. Apparently, the provisions of foreign laws should be studied, analysed and, in some cases, implemented. Secondly, so as the corporate legislation is quite new it is justified that comparison between different legal systems on the same object has to be carried out.
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The findings of this study reveal correlation between the damages caused to a company and a single executive body actions (inactions). My arguments will be sought by analysing corpus data devoted to institute of a CEO in corporate legislation. To lend support to the hypothesis it is possible to utilise contrasting examples drawn from different sources such as laws, doctrine, court practice. The project will have some theoretical and practical implications about developing and improving legal regulation of the responsibility of a sole executive body. 
Conclusion
It follows from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the responsibility of a single executive body for damages caused to a company. Notwithstanding the regulation of examined institute of corporate law is pretty covering all the aspects, but there is a set of problems, such as the lack of notion wrongfulness in statutory enactments and judicial practice, nondifferentiation between , etc.
To bring the project to a close I can state that my predictions if valid ensure that the project will be an attempt to stimulate theoretical research into disputable aspects of the application of provisions about the responsibility and legislative improvement with regard to filling the existing gaps in laws. 
