Introduction
Background. Nowadays the fraud is one of the most dangerous and latent crimes. It covers most of spheres in people`s lives. This phenomenon has a rich historical transformation and was first mentioned in Code of Ivan IV in 1550. But this wasn`t the crime which we know today. Mostly the definition of fraud and the corpus delicti were investigated in 1903 when the Law Act of Fraud was enacted. In the second part of 20`s century the legal definition, qualification and the crime itself were altered and took another shape. We should notice that soviet legislation gave the greatest development and had the most significant changes throughout the second half of the 20`s century. The modern understanding of all elements of fraud was changed due to the new economic policy of the state. The transition to the market economy ‘untied the hands’ of criminals and ‘provided’ new ways, resources and possibilities of committing the fraud. So, the fraud is a multifactorial and complex crime that covers many areas of life of modern Russian society. Historically, it exists for a long time, but in recent decades has transformed significantly and taken new forms, consequently, increased its social danger, which, in turn, requires an integrated approach to its detection, suppression and prevention. Also, there is a great risk for the future of emerging of new types of fraud.
Problem Statement. Therefore, the purpose of our research is to produce new ways of counteraction to fraud and new ways of detection of every type of fraud. The objectives are: 
1. To formulate the concept and to characterize the fraud in our country and abroad;
2. To identify ways of counteraction to fraud the prevention of it;
3. To consider its implications, problems and solutions in law enforcement. 
Professional Significance. This kind of research has a large importance in investigation and clearance of this kind of crime. Also, it concludes in revealing of details which may hamper the qualification of the fraud in practice, the identification of new types of fraud. Scientific and practical significance of the research concludes in the analysis, conclusions and suggestions, which can be used in improving the relevant sections of the Russian legislation regulating aspects of counteraction to fraud in all of its forms. Another side of the issue is that nowadays fraud is associated with using of the computer technologies and other facilities. It also has a bond with growing thread of fraud using credit cards and the fraud in the sphere of computer information.
Delimitations of the study. The main focus on fraud problem is what is it and how does it work, how the law enforcement system can counteract it. Another thing which we should admit is how to distinct the main corpus delicti from the corpus delicti of another kinds of fraud. Because of rapid progress of this crime, the legislation also should be adapted under the altering conditions. Also we should reveal the mechanism of the crime, who can commit it.
Definitions of key terms. We should acknowledge that the terms enumerated in that section are formulated on the basis of legal documents and legal articles. Also, as we know that scientists give a high variety of definitions, we will itemize them in the following list.
1) Fraud is the embezzlement of the property or the right to the property of the person committed by deceit or abuse of trust. (legislative definition)
2) Russian scientist V.G. Bezverhov determines fraud as the inducement by the deception to the transfer of property, by assignment of property rights, or to commit another act or omission of a material nature if the offense is committed in significant amount1.
3) “Fraud” is a generic word that includes a number of different kinds of actions, all of which can trigger civil or criminal liability; at its core, fraud is the intentional deception of a person or entity by another, made for monetary or personal gain. 
Literature Review
Everybody knows that the fraud is one of the most committing crimes today, but man in the street can`t say that it is one of the most dangerous crime. Before we start to speak about features and to give a mark to it, we should sort out what it is. This is a multifaceted and complicated crime, scientists can not to come to a consensus and introduce a universal definition yet and law definitions and offerings of science community initiate a discussions about right relation of science and law positions.
Law position which was referred earlier says that the fraud is the specific form of embezzlement. Here we face some attitudes that confirm and agree with the legislators. The definition of Wayne E. Baker and Robert R. Faulkner is very similar to the definition of Bezverhov and sounds as ‘intentional action with the infliction of property damage’ of victim, a misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact. He means that there is must be a mistaken belief in the victim`s mind about existing fact. Consequently, he or she suffers from the damage or the loss of the right to the property.
But in some occasions, especially when determining the specific forms fraud, there is very hard to give a strong definition. For example, when we speak about insurance fraud, Richard A.Derrig considers that the definition of the fraud in that case cannot be employed in the context because it makes it anti-scientific and more philistine which is absolutely unacceptable in qualifying crime acts4 or, in other hand, can be very strict to apply it in crime sphere and to match the estimation objective.
Fraud is the object of research of many scientists in the whole world. Russian researcher Bezverhov also made a great contribution to the study of this crime. In his monograph ‘Property Offenses’ he studied many aspects of interaction of crime offences and civil torts and gives his own details of qualification. Moreover, the author considers giving a definition and explanation of the property itself and the occurring relations in the process of committing the crime. Also, he analyzes the importance of the adoption of new Criminal Code of 1996 because in the process of development of market relations it became necessary to work out the category of ‘property crimes’ because market economy characterizes by fundamentally new crimes such as fraud5. The situation becomes more complicated by the fact that public goods can be not the only objects of relations but also real estate and even enterprises in such circumstances. Therefore, the fraud in such conditions demands a different approach to prevention and suppression. Often, criminal actions which have similar features as the fraud itself cannot be qualified as fraud. The author gives an example when fraudulent acquisition of state funds by submitting to the tax authorities deliberately distorted data by the person performing the managerial functions in commercial and other organizations, is unacceptable to qualify as fraud committed with the use of the said person of his official position.
Besides, the article contains the research of the problems of criminalization and systematization of property crimes.
Another article of Russian scientist Avtandilova I.O. called ‘Difference of swindle from adjacent crimes: qualification problems’ which contains problems directly between main and qualified corpus delicti which demands the production of recommendations for application and improving the enforcement practice, also the work contains the comparison of corpus delicti of the fraud and similar crimes. The author criticizes the corresponding decision of the Supreme Court and carries out its analysis. She finds that the fraud is fraudulent because the criminal affects the consciousness of the victim, to persuade him to transfer property. But she concludes that the common feature of similar crimes is that they only masks and creates conditions for committing fraud together with the fact that this is main method of committing the fraud6. 
One more research is dedicated to computer fraud and has the opinion, that after the global financial crisis of 2008 the computer fraud became more dangerous, it created the premises for a substantial increase. The data about the total amount of proceeds of cyber fraudsters cannot be measurable in accurate numbers. Another issue concludes in absence of possibility of determination and identification of number of persons involved in crime, because most of fraud schemes made in groups because of effectiveness. One more common feature of computer fraud is the bond with corruption. In addition, the struggle with fraud demands a high amount of human, technical and informational resources. The usage of viral attacks on computers also mentioned and it causes monetary losses in high on a large scale. This type of fraud characterizes its latency, and the perpetrator has the ability to appear and escape right before the eyes of the victim and to remain undetected. This demands highly developed technical resources such as the attention of ordinary citizens.
Methods
In relation to our research, we used specific methods for more detailed analysis. Comparative method allows to compare types of fraud and to reveal similar features in them and the crimes that contributed to committing fraud itself. Induction helped us to make parallels between the main corpus delicti and qualified corpus delicti and we came to the conclusion that all forms of fraud guided by the deception, because even the computer fraud provides to victim wrong information and misleads him. Deductive method can predict new types of fraud or new methods of committing already habitual fraud to us. And the study of practice can confirm our results and to study of application of legal norms as in our county as abroad.
Results Anticipated
During this research we are confident that all of our theories and anticipated results will be accomplished. Our anticipated results: offering new methods for combating fraud, new methods of detection of crime, and the theoretical development of the proposed new types of fraud to a successful counteraction to them. The theoretical information of our research can be a basis for new researches and new methods of counteraction to fraud.
Conclusion
We acknowledged that the fraud is highly dangerous crime, it is hard to detect and protect citizens from it. Nowadays the fraud takes different forms but it does not make fraudsters stronger. Law enforcement authorities developed a lot of methods of prediction and suppression. But a lot of sides of the issue now stay unsolved. Computer fraud is very prevalent and latent nowadays. It consists of coherent actions of criminals which cannot be detected without sufficient attention of citizens and law enforcement authorities. 
1 Bezverhov, A.G. Property Offenses. Samara: Samara University.
2 Don Mayer,  Anita Cava, Catharyn Baird. Crime and Punishment (or the Lack Thereof) for Financial Fraud in the Subprime Mortgage Meltdown: Reasons and Remedies for Legal and Ethical Lapses. Oxford: American Business Law Journal.
3 Wayne E. Baker, Robert R. Faulkner. Diffusion of fraud: Intermediate economic crime and investor dynamics. Oxford: University of Michigan, University of Massachusetts.
4 Richard A. Derrig. Insurance fraud. US: The Journal of Risk and Insurance.
5 Bezverhov, A.G. Property Offenses. Samara: Samara University, p. 91
6 Avtandilova I.O. Difference of swindle from adjacent crimes: qualification problems. Moscow: Gaps in Russian legislation. Legal journal.

