Introduction
Background. Joint-stock companies - one of the most common legal form of organization in the Russian Federation. 
By creating a joint-stock company, or entering into a joint stock company by making the amount of any property, or money, the shareholder acquired a scope of rights and duties. Among them are the obligations, for example, of payment of the charter capital. Along with the responsibilities the shareholder owns the rights such as, for example, receive dividends, the right to participate in the general meeting of the society, at a certain percentage of ownership of shares participate in the company's corporate bodies. Now therefore, judicial practice shows that shareholders` rights are sometimes violated.
The most common category of judicial decisions in the period from 2013 to 2016 year was the category of cases on disputes relating to membership shares and participating interests, the establishment of encumbrances and implementation of the rights deriving from them. In the first half of  2016 year a number of legal actions was reached 1448 court, from which 948 legal actions demands of the relief were satisfied by the courts. From this we deduce that the is a positive trend towards the stabilization of the judicial practice: the courts sustaining for the largest number of  petitioner's claims every year. In 2015, earlier cases in the amount of 1410 claims were satisfied only in 764 judicial decisions. (The data are taken from the website of the Judicial Department under the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation).
From now on we assume that the shareholders' rights may be violated as the joint-stock company, the members in the corporate bodies of the company and shareholders with the greatest impact on the corporation.
To resolve such a situation the legislation established a complex of protective mechanisms by which the restoration of the  violated rights is possible. Such methods of protection established by the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, and various federal laws in the Russian Federation.
The relevance of this topic is caused by permission of recurring conflict situations in  a joint- stock company. 
Problem statement. The aim of this study is to identify problems in the regulation of relations between the shareholders, joint-stock companies` corporate bodies; determination the most effective civil protection rights of shareholders. Relating to the general purpose a number of specific tasks should be emphasized: 
1. To determine the definition of «civil protection of rights».
2. Classification of the civil protection rights.
3. Identify protection of the rights of shareholders.
4. Analysis of judicial practice in cases concerning the protection rights of shareholders. 
Professional significance. It is a comprehensive study of legal literature on the question, identifying the advantages and disadvantages of protection of shareholder`s rights presented in the legislation, the investigation of approaches to the protection of shareholders' rights in judicial practice, in cases when form of judicial protection of the right is used. 
Delimitations of the study. Identify the definition of «civil protection of rights», the study of various classifications of civil protection of rights. Identify methods of shareholders` rights protection. Analysis of judicial practice in court decisions, relating to the protection of  the  shareholders` rights, identification of common and different approaches of courts of different judicial authorities in the Russian Federation to check the jurisprudence constante. 
Literature review
The concept «civil protection of rights» has no legal statutory definition. Based on the definition given in the legal literature, like most authors, we have formulated the concept in the following way: a methods, fixed by law documents, to eliminate the violation of the rights, committed by subjects of legal relations.
The civil protection of rights In Russian legislation established by the Article 12 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. Methods, which can be applicable to the protection of the rights of shareholders depends on the situation and established by the various federal laws. For examples federal laws "About Joint Stock Companies" or "About Protection of Rights and legal Interests of Investors on the Financial  Market".
In legal literature, the civil protection of rights are classified on various bases. The paper covers some classifications. In this study we refer to the work by Alina Plyushch, Yaroslav Abramov, who focuses on bases: «1) internal corporate mechanisms for conflict resolution ;2) contract mechanisms; 3) judicial and non-judicial (alternative) mechanisms». The first group includes the protection mechanisms enshrined in the code of corporate governance. The second group includes the so-called joint agreement. Joint agreements are established in the legislation of the Russian Federation	` legislation. We should  notice an unambiguousness formulation of legislation regulating a conclusion of joint agreement in the legislation of the Russian Federation. In Ukrainian legislation there is a lack of effective mechanisms to ensure the execution of the agreement, for example, a penalty mechanisms. The third group includes judicial and extrajudicial protection of shareholders' rights. Judicial methods include, for instance, sue for declaring an invalid a  transaction committed by one of the shareholders. 
In this paper we refer to the work by Oxana Kozyr, who focuses on restoration of violated rights of minority shareholders. Minority shareholders` rights are violated due to suppression by the majority shareholders. One of such cases is depicted in the following example.  It is a situation of receiving a mandatory offer shares at a price below market value, that is, in advance illegal. In such cases, a shareholder may sue for compensation. The author emphasizes the problem of "dual jurisdiction"   in such situations. The problem is that «the courts dismissed the claim, citing the fact that the court's decision will affect rights and legitimate interests of other shareholders». In confirmation of this negative trend, the author provides an example of a case where the In confirmation of this negative trend, the author provides an example of a decision of Federal arbitration court case where plaintiff's claim for annulment of decisions of the extraordinary meetings of shareholders were dismissed. Unfortunately, not in all cases the compensation of losses  shall be commensurate with compensation for damages. The author gives a list of possible methods of protection minority shareholders` rights.  Among them there are: «1) to file lawsuits demanding invalidation of transactions involving an interest on the part of persons who may influence the way the company is run; 2) to file lawsuits to oblige a company to pay dividends» and some other methods.
To extrajudicial methods of rights` protection mediation is related. It is   involvement on a voluntary basis by the disputing parties an independent mediator, who will resolve the conflict between the parties. In the Russian Federation this procedure  is provided by the article 76 of the Code of corporate governance (Corporate Governance Code of the Russian Federation.
Another classification is given by Nasimov I. A., in his dissertation research. He divides the existing methods of protection of the rights according to the objective criterion into two categories: 1) category of  rights protection aimed at restoring the violated rights 2) prevention of the illegal actions. The author related to the first group: the recognition of an avoidable transaction as invalid; the obtaining of property from another's illegal possession; to invalidate the shareholders resolution in lieu of an extraordinary meeting of shareholders. As a particular case, related to methods of protection of shareholders' rights, the author provides the restoration of corporate control (in the case of its loss). The concept of restoration of corporate control as a way of protecting the rights of shareholders is considered as a special case of restoring the situation that existed before the violation of law. Sarbash S. V. found that "this concept includes: restitution and vindication, a recognition of the transaction as invalid, annulment of corporate acts (for example:  resolutions  of the General Meeting of Shareholders)". The variety of protection of shareholders` rights allow shareholders in narrow term achieve the restoration of corporate control. We should outline, that this arguments emphasizes the effectiveness of this concept. 
It should be noted that the concept of restoration of corporate control must be distinguished from recovery of corporate control as the effects of other means of shareholders' rights protection, for example, from restitution.
One more  protection of shareholders ' rights is the recognition of the right to illegally lost participatory share. In this method Nazimov I. A. highlights the following significant points: firstly, the right to own of participatory share expresses the right to participate in the corporation, and secondly, "it identifies a complex property and related personal non-property relations  with the objective of achieving increase in property rights". Moreover, it is necessary to define a differences from vindication as a method of recognizing the rights. In the case of recognition of the right a person shouldn`t be individualized, but in the case of vindication, if you cannot identify the person, who is retired from the possession of the owner participatory share, a claim will not be satisfied by the court. 
We can make a conclusion that the implementation of this method of protecting the rights realized by sue. From rather-legal analysis we deduce that shareholders prefer to defend their rights in courts. It should be noted that the methods of protection of shareholder rights described in this work is not exhaustive.
Nowadays, speaking about the existing problem of corporate conflicts, it should be noted that the number of corporate disputes (including the claims for rights protection) be in the first half of 2016 equal 7417 cases considered by arbitration courts of the subjects of the Russian Federation. In the first half of 2015, the number was equal 6852 cases. (This data  is taken from the website of the Judicial Department of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation). 
Consequently, the problem of resolving corporate conflicts in joint-stock companies exists. This fact underlines the relevance of the paper. It also means that shareholders use judicial form of protection of their rights the most frequent than the other forms. 
Methods
In this study, we used a complex of General scientific and special methods.
1) Rather - legal method. Is the study of the legal framework protecting   shareholders` rights, its understanding and interpretation.
2) The Deductive method. It is a study of protection rights in general terms and then  analyzing a protection of the rights of shareholders. 
3) The comparative legal method. Implemented through a review of literature, devoted to the protection rights in general terms, and shareholders` rights in foreign countries and the comparison of the obtained results with the existing in the Russian Federation. 
4) Analytical method. Implemented through the study of literature, legal acts, identifying specific features in regulating the relationship between shareholders, joint stock companies, the corporate bodies of joint-stock companies; identify the positive and negative aspects in the regulation with respect to joint-stock companies, the formation of the research results.


Results Anticipated
In this paper we explore the possibility of formulating the concept of civil protection of rights. It implies the means enshrined by law, with the aim of eliminating offenses. 
It is revealed that legal literature includes many classifications, divided protection methods, the most frequently used classifications are for the purposes of protection and forms of protection. 
From analyzing of legal literature, statistical data, we deduce that the most  used form of protection of shareholders` rights, is a form of judicial protection.
The concept of restoration of corporate control - is an effective method of protecting of shareholders` rights because of restoring the right that has been infringed without prejudicing of bona fide third parties`  rights. 
Conclusion
In this paper we focused on the protection of shareholders` rights. We have analyzed the legal literature on this issue. The results of the analysis revealed some peculiarities of methods of protection of shareholders` rights, their advantages and disadvantages.
In conclusion, we can admit, that for effective implementation of protection of shareholders` rights denoted  it is important to compliance legislation by parties or observation procedural aspects enshrined by charter of a joint stock company.

