Introduction
Background. The sphere of housing and communal services is one of the most important spheres of state policy, since this sphere lies in direct contact with the interests of citizens. The entry into legal force of the Housing Code of the Russian Federation in 2005 determined the emergence and confirmation of new principles for the regulation of common property relations between owners of premises in an apartment building. The Housing Code contains three ways to manage an apartment building - direct management of owners, management of the homeowners association (HOA), or a house-hold cooperative or another cooperative and management of the managing organization. According to data provided on the website of the Housing and Utilities Reform there are 727 823 apartment buildings under the management of the managing organizations, and only 55 088 are under the management of HOA and another house-hold cooperatives. This allows us to conclude that the management method of the managing organizations is the most popular among owners of premises in an apartment building.
There is currently the growing concern for managing organizations. The main questions for a wide range of contemporary studies are surfacing in grounds for responsibility. This issue has come to occupy a central place in Housing law.
An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of managing organizations signifies the expanded role of ways of property management.
However, it should be noted, that the most frequently received complaints of citizens to state bodies are connected with the activities of managing organizations. Despite the fact that the state made attempts to reform this area, the legal regulation of the activities of managing organizations remains one of the important areas for improving the current legislation. Analysis of law enforcement practice allows us to conclude that the number of appeals of citizens to state and municipal bodies about violations in the housing area is growing. In this situation, the relationship between housing and administrative legislation is interesting. While the debate over administrations seems to gain popularity, it still generates controversy. 
Problem Statement. The general purpose of this study is to provide a greater depth of knowledge about a previously studied of institute of the managing organization's administrative responsibility. Apart from that, attention should be paid to some questions about managing. Firstly, there is no definition “managing organization” in legislation. That is why there are great amount of authors, who tries to give a definition in their studies. The lack of a legally fixed definition creates certain problems for law enforcement practice. Thereby the concept of managing organization will be addressed in this work. After establishing licensing system, some issues and problems appeared. For this reason, it is rational to take look more closely at obligatory and licensing requirements to managing organizations. Moreover, beside that the general description of the responsibility for violation of housing legislation will be observed.
In addition, it is important to pay attention on practical part of this study. Firstly, for understanding the nature of the institution of managing organization’s administrative responsibility, it is necessary to study the judicial practice on the involvement of managing organizations in administrative responsibility under the Code of Administrative Offences.
Delimitations of the Study. The Housing Code provides owners with three ways to manage common property – direct management, management through the HOA and management by the managing organizations. Despite that, in study will be consider issues related with activity of managing organizations.
The further limitations are related with a type of liability. The research focuses on the issues of administration responsibility. Other type of liability like criminal, civil, disciplinary are irrelevant to the subject of research. 
Professional Significance. Housing relations and especially relations between managing organizations and owners of premises are very common and affect almost every citizens. In connection with the increasing number of citizens' appeals to state bodies regarding disputes with the managing organization, this research is of main interest. The gaps in the law on this matter, the lack of clear system of legal regulation lead to numerous violations of the rights and interests of the concerned parties. The results of this study, containing an analysis of judicial and law enforcement practices can be the basis for further research and reform of legislation.
The scientific novelty of the study is as follows. There are great amount of works devoted to various aspects of the management of the apartment building. Many authors pay attention to the issues of licensing activities for managing an apartment building. In addition, there are some studies on the responsibility for offenses in the housing sector. Nevertheless, despite the enormous urgency there is still no comprehensive and complete analysis of the institution of administrative responsibility of the managing organizations. 
Literature Review
This part of the project is meant to examine theoretical studies in the field of managing organization’s administrative responsibilities. The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature and acts of legislation.
Kitsai made a great contribution to the study of the legal nature of managing organizations. In her studies, she points out that unified doctrinal approaches have not been deduced despite the active discussion in the literature of the topic of managing the common property in apartment building. Author speaks about the need to implement the following recommendations: firstly, to formalize the definition of the managing organization at the legislative level, secondly, include in Art. 16 of Housing Code of Russia the term “apartment building” as an independent object of housing legal relations. Finally, she insist on introducing the concept of administrative responsibility of managing organizations as a set of measures to control their actions by third parties.
The great discussions revolved around the foundation of the management of apartment building. According to Russian Housing Code, the owners of premises conclude an agreement on the management of an apartment building with a managing organization. There are some questions concerning the legal nature of this agreement. Some authors believe that this is an agency contract, the others find it possible to attribute it to contract for work and labor, the thirds assumed that it is a trust management agreement, etc. In addition, there is a point of view according to which the contract of management of apartment building is a mixed contract. Under closer examination, a considerable amount of modern theories in this sphere seems to be contradictory. This research will be based on the approach of Yurieva, according to which the contract of management of an apartment building is self-standing contract. 
Establishing of the licensing system for the management of the apartment building caused heated discussions in the professional community. A great amount of authors has criticized the system. Izmaylov argues that the introduction of licensing cannot solve the main problems in the relationship of managing organizations and owners of premises. 
Some authors offer alternative ways to control the activities of managing organizations. One of such ways is self-policing. The advantages of self-policing boil down to the following: the development of effective standards of business; formation of private companies interested in conscientious fulfillment of their duties; cleansing the market from unconscientious organizations; confirmation of compliance with a high standard.
For better understanding of the institution of managing organizations, it is necessary to analyze the foreign experience in managing of apartment buildings. 
The law of the Republic of Armenia on Apartment Building Management provides for three possible ways of managing common property: condominium, an authorized manager (proxy), trustee manager. In accordance with Art. 18 condominium is a legal entity created by owners themselves. Only owners of premises can be the members of the condominium. Such form of management can be compared with homeowners association (HOA), regulated by Russian legislation.
The concept of a trust manager resembles the structure of a managing organization, because trustee management of the common property of a building shall be carried out in accordance with the Paid Service Contract concluded between the owners of the common property and trustee manager.
Apart from that, it is useful to take a look on the management of apartment building in Latvia. Detailed analysis of legislative acts of Latvia allow us to conclude, that the terms "residential house management" and "residential house administration" are equivalent. There are only two ways to manage apartment buildings: 1) direct management of owners; 2) transfer of management to the managing company. Upon that, the organizational and legal form of the managing company is not established. It may be a joint-stock company or a limited liability company, as well as a cooperative of apartment owners or an association of apartment owners or another legal or natural person. 
The authors singled out 5 principles of management: 1) continuity of the administrative process (management process); 2) choosing the best possible control measures; 3) high quality of provided services; 4) inadmissibility of violation of safety and health of citizens; 5) ensuring the preservation of the environment. 
The conclusions to which the authors come in their work are important for our law enforcement practice. Owners of premises should take into account not only price factors (the difference between direct management and management of a managing organization is the amount of remuneration for the work of the managing organization), but a number of other factors, for example, the quality of management, the desire and ability of owners to independently manage themselves, etc. when choosing one of possible ways of management.
Another study is focused on pricing principles of apartment house management in Latvia. The frequent reasons for the poor quality of the services provided for the management of apartment buildings is the lack of consent between owners of premises and the unsuccessful choice of the form of management. The price affects the services offered, their quantity and frequency of execution, existing situation regarding communications and building structures.
In accordance with the legislation of Latvia, there are two template of invoices. In one of them, the management fee is indicated in one line, and in the other, it is distributed among several lines. This introduces the owners of premises into confusion. To avoid misunderstandings, the authors propose to introduce a common unified template of the invoice. 
Another research is focused on the agency costs to property owners of entering into standard property management contracts. Authors conclude, that standard management contract does not take into account differences in incentives between owners of premises and managers. Remuneration for managing organizations is calculated on the basis of a percentage of gross rental collection.
One more studies focus on the historical aspects of development of the housing in Russia. Vihavainen found that housing in Russia "is still clearly characterized by the legacy of the Soviet Union’s housing policy". This conclusion is turn out to be doomed to failure, especially within the framework of approach suggested.
The need to renovate the Latvian housing stock is justified in the study of Borodinecs, Zemitis, Sorokins, Baranova, Sovetnikov. This study is also relevant for Russia, since most of the apartment buildings managed by the managing organizations were built during the Soviet period. Amount and quality of services provided to owners of premises, and price directly depends on the condition of the home.
The study of Paiho, Abdurafikov, Hedman, Hoang, Kouhia, Meinander, Sepponen is focused on the need of renovation in Moscow. The managing organizations play an important role in the renovation, because they directly provide services for the management of apartment buildings. 
Methods
This part of proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study. I should like to develop a new procedure of bringing to responsibility of managing organizations that relies on specific approach. There is an astonishingly broad contemporary consensus on the need for a single framework for responsibility.
I seek to examine various approaches to investigating grounds for engaging to responsibility. The methodology will take a definite shape as the study is progressing
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will be organized in terms of the specific research questions posed in problem statement. It first will report about the legal nature, grounds for actions of managing organizations, its structure, functions, goals, rights and duties. It then will examine the general characteristics of administrative responsibility and analysis of the elements of offenses committed by the managing organization. In the part to follow the presentation of the results will use an appropriate organizational pattern. The findings of this study will bring point out to the existence of some problems in this sphere. The text will be integrated with tables and charts. The project will have some theoretical implications.
Conclusion
In conclusion I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. The project is devoted to the detailed and complex analyses of the institute of managing organization’s administrative responsibility. This analyses can help to fill the gaps in the law on this matter, to create a more precise system of legal regulation that will lead to the lack of numerous violations of the rights and interests of the concerned parties.
