INTRODUCTION
The problem of contesting acts of a court bailiff is considered one of the most vital issues in executive law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main aspects of the issue under question: the subject and the burden of proof. Both of these aspects require precise research because there are some contradictions in judicial practice.
The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: Russian law does not contain detailed regulation on the procedure for contesting decisions of a court bailiff that causes problems with law cases in determining the subject of proof, proving for these categories of cases as well as the allocation of the burden of proof. This all determines the purpose of the research. The main purpose is to find out the general approaches that allow legal practitioners to determine the subject and the burden of proof and the process of proof.
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following: 
To analyze the types of contesting acts of a court bailiff. 
To define the features of the subject of proof. 
To identify the allocation of the burden of proof.
The research focuses on the nature of contesting acts of the court bailiff which allows to identify it and find precise ways of proof. This determined some difficulties in law enforcement of various courts to the subject of proof and the allocation of the burden of proof. More than that one of the delimitations of the study, connected with the previous one, is the essential difference of foreign and Russian law regulation. And finally, the last delimitation is the data on 6je results of contesting acts of a court bailiff. 
In the framework of the project, the first task to deal with is to analyze the forms of contesting acts of a court bailiff in Russia and foreign legal systems in order to differentiate commonalities and differences in the approach of Saxon and German law. This allows analyzing the key features of the contesting acts. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile to identify the characteristics of presiding this category of cases. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to analyze the law «About enforcement proceedings» and the corresponding judgments of the supreme court to formulate probable recommendations to be taken for effective law enforcement. 
The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for various scholars, students of law faculties, and lawyers who protect the interest of the parties of the executive proceedings as bonds between existing legal knowledge and actual legal practice will be established. Since the issue studied is of utmost legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in civil law, civil procedural law and private practice including the lawyers, counsels, court bailiffs and the judges.
LITERATURE REVIEW
There has been substantial research undertaken on the different aspects of the issue under consideration. According to Marina A. Shaptraeva the procedure for filing a complaint of an individual or legal entity to the decision (action, inaction) of a court bailiff, its consideration, as well as the result, both in the form is possible in administrative and judicial forms. 
Studies of Xabier Arzoz show the importance of codified regulation of the administrative process. He distinguishes four basic models of regulation of administrative procedure: classical codification, brief frame regulation, complex regulation, non-codified procedure. Russian administrative process, in turn, is related to classical codification that allows it to develop more general regulation, including all stages of the process. 
The researcher determines administrative procedure as the complex «of the steps for adjudication in individual cases as well as the steps to be followed by those who need (or are forced) to enter into contact with administrative authorities».
Most of the states are compelled to respect the principles of democracy democratic and the fundamental rights of humans. Administrative procedure is one of the most remarkable indicators of complying with constitutional democratic values. The government must take into account these basic principles to regulate administrative procedures, especially provide various opportunities for contesting acts and decisions of public authorities.
Balazs Hohmann J.D. has been the focus of much investigation in the search of different forms of contesting decisions of government agencies, especially in Hungary to provide observing democratic principles and human rights. The researcher emphasizes that another perspective form will be the еhe application of alternative dispute resolution methods, i.e., mediation. This form of dispute resolution was originated manly as a private law dispute resolution. Most authors consider that it will be an ineffective form of contesting decisions (action, inaction) of a court bailiff because of the contradictions of the traditional basic principles of public and private law. However, these procedures must be constantly developed and adapted to current conditions of requirements to the democratic state of law. Balázs Hohmann J.D. objectively indicates effectiveness alternative dispute resolution methods in the administrative process because it will influence significant legitimacy results of an agreement and also reduce various outgoings.
In order to investigate law enforcement attempts to reconcile procedures and basics of democracy Laszlo Vertesy analyses the main characteristics of the model state administrative procedure act in the USA. The judicial system of the USA involves organizing the office of administrative hearings. This court is focused on hears administrative disputes, but there are two authorities of the administrative law judge, mandatory and recommendatory, which depends on the individual act of the state. The study implies that effective administrative procedure requires a separate judicial authority to hear the administrative dispute and take a decision сonsidering legal principles.
The findings of Barkhuysen T., Ouden W., Schuurmans Y.E. presented the main features of administrative procedures in the Netherlands. The author explores a new codification act regulating administrative procedure шn Netherlands (General Administrative Law Act). On the one hand, uniformity and systematization in the administrative procedure have been the act introduced, on the other hand «legal constructions designed to accelerate decision-making processes and to reduce the individual procedural rights of interested parties».
Slobodan Martinoviс identified the judicial complaint as the perspective instrument for the protection of parties from administrative actions. The evolvement of the administrate courts provides the accurate control of the legality of administrative acts of public agencies. However, the judicial complaint is permitted by Serbian law if the decision upon the complaint was issued by the authority against whose decision appeals are not allowed, administrative dispute against such decisions may be initiated. This, unlike the Russian legal system, serves as a filter for most administrative complaints. However, the legal norm does not apply to contest decisions (acts, inactions) of court bailiffs.
The current legislation procedure for contesting decisions (action, and inaction) of the court bailiff in the Russian Federation is inextricably connected and dependent on the theoretical basis of the administrative process. Anastasiya U. Semenikhina examines the issues of law enforcement in the field of judicial appeal of decisions and actions of public authorities. The following problems are emphasized: unreasonable rejection of the court to accept the appeal; disputes of parties with inappropriate entities; unreasonable abandonment by the court of a statement without hearing; determination of jurisdiction of cases; violation by the courts of the time frames for the hearing; improper application by courts of substantive law; non-enforcement of court decisions.
Alexander V. Orlov concludes that judicial control is the most effective and high-quality way of ensuring the rule of law in enforcement proceedings in comparison with the administrative procedure for resolving complaints to a chief bailiff.
A.V. Orlov also notes that in order to improve the quality of law enforcement in the administrative process is necessary to establish special administrative courts. However, this innovation is not entirely justified, since the administrative process does not have significant differences from the civil or arbitration process. 
Furthermore, several laws of the Russian Federation have been also analyzed, in particular, the Code of Administrative Procedure of the Russian Federation dated 08.03.2015 № 21-FZ, the Federal Law «On Enforcement Proceedings» dated 02.10.2007 № 229-FZ), the Federal Law «About bailiffs» 21.07.1997 № 118-FZ. These laws fully regulate administrative and judicial procedures of contesting decisions of a court bailiff and demonstrate law basics of law enforcement practice.
METHODS 
For examination of contesting decisions of a court bailiff (action, inaction), various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows assessing the current state of the Russian legislation regulating administrative process and enforcement proceeding. The functional method will be used to determine the basic and law enforcement practice of the legislation on governing the administrative disputes and to identify the legal mechanisms of hearing appeals to the decisions of a court bailiff. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of administrative procedures in different legal systems. Finally, the formal-legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the subject and the burden of proof and rights and obligations of the parties in the administrative process, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of the administrative process.
RESULTS ANTICIPATED
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of contesting decisions of a court bailiff and the data on results of the contesting show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by A.U. Semenikhina and M.A. Shaptraeva reveals that there is a delimenation of terms and approaches. It means that the researches have different views on the subject under question. I infer that the problem of determining contesting acts of a court bailiff should be considered to systematize crucial moments of proof in that category. This gives the perspective of future research. Achieved outcomes, grounded on the analysis of case study, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the framing of effective judicial protection.
Preliminary analysis of the data allows outlining results in terms of legal practice. The data is presented by the judicial decisions of Russian federal courts. It shows that contesting decisions of the court bailiff is a generally presented way to influence enforcement proceedings. It gives details on interpretation law in legal practice. The results support the idea that there is no one approach to reminding provable circumstances.
All this determines the solution of the problem of necessity detailed regulation on the procedure for contesting decisions of a court bailiff. Elaboration of the unified approach to proof plays a fundamental role in enforcement proceedings and contributes greatly to law science. I hope my research will be helpful to solve some issues arising during enforcement proceedings.
CONCLUSION
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the current legal framework insufficiently regulates the administrative proceedings of contesting decisions of a court bailiff. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of the subject of proof and the burden of proof in legal practice because there are various law enforcement practices.
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to other researches in the field of administrative procedural law. The potential for this research lies, first of all, in enriching the unified approach to the subject of proof and the burden of proof that can be applied in legal practice and providing judicial protection to the parties of the executive process. The main contribution of this research is placing the study of the contesting decisions of a court bailiff through the legal practice and executive proceedings prism into the field of administrative procedural studies. 
The findings are essential for legal practice and law studies. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for administrative procedural law learners to use proper approachers to determine the subject of proof and the burden of proof. They may have large practical implications for legal students, practicing protection of rights and legal interests of the parties in the executive process.
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they allow to precisely analyze a necessary database. Since the project focuses mainly on legal practice and relevant literature review, it will follow descriptive and critical research designs built on analytical, functional and comparative methods.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of contesting decisions of a court bailiff (action, inaction) for further study of the administrative process as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
