Introduction
Background. Testamentary succession, considering one of the common bases of the property right, is inherent in almost all modern legal systems. Such institute is also inherent to the legislation of Russia, which belongs to one of these legal families. However, in practice, Russian citizens refuse the opportunity to bequeath their property, choosing inheritance by law. There are several reasons why citizens make this choice: the low level of people legal culture; the existence of problems and controversial issues brought about by gaps in the legal regulation of testamentary succession and the complexity of applying certain norms of this institution in practice; the existence of mistakes of courts in interpretation of norms included in the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. On these problematic aspects Kostina paid attention in her article “Legal regulation of testamentary succession and notarial practice in the Russian Federation”. Thus, the theoretical analysis of the legal regulation of testamentary succession in Russia is relevant. Moreover, an increasing amount of publications in this sphere signify a shift in significance in studying this institution of inheritance. The reveal and analysis of these problematic aspects have become the important topics of theoretical concentration. 
Problem Statement. Due to the fact that the legal doctrine does not pay attention to identifying problems and finding ways for their elimination in the Russian legislation, the general aim of this project to explore the legal regulation of testamentary succession in Russia in comparison with the similar legal institution existing in foreign countries for the further improvement of the institute of inheritance in Russia This aim determined a set of research objectives. 
To analyze the legal nature of the will in Russia and foreign countries.
To compare the regulation of testamentary succession in Russia and foreign countries.
To examine the possibility of applying the foreign experience for improvement the legal regulation of testamentary succession in Russia.
Delimitations of the Study. In the research work we will focus on identifying the legal nature of the will in Russian law and law of foreign countries. We will pinpoint the key features of forms and types of the will in Russia and foreign countries. We will consider the bases of wills’ invalidity, existing in different countries. We do not set the goal to deeply explore the historical aspect of the topic because it does not correspond the aim of this research work. Also we will analyze the features of heritable legal relations in Russia and foreign countries. We will compare Russian legislation with legislations of countries belonging to different legal systems (England, Germany, Norway and France). In this work it is not our purpose to investigate legislations of other countries, as these countries are enough to carry out legal analysis.
Professional Significance. Today the study of Russian testamentary succession in comparison with the same institution of foreign countries has an obvious appeal among scholars and has come to occupy a central place in the doctrine of this area. While this standpoints and problems have long interested professionals, many issues remain unresolved. The execution of the theoretical analysis of practical legal issues and the interpretation of legal regulation of testamentary succession is necessary as it will clarify and explain some of the legal provisions and maybe help us to develop recommendations of how to improve the legislation which regulate testamentary succession.
Definitions of Key Terms. According to famous English lawyer Ritchie “A will - an instrument by which a person makes a disposition of his property to take effect after his decease, and which is in its own nature ambulatory and revocable during his life”. “Testamentary capacity is the legal term used to describe the level of understanding that is required in order for an individual to be able to make a valid will”.

Literature Review
Lawyers’ scientific researches on the topic in the field of testamentary succession in Russia and foreign countries and their comparative legal analysis of differences in the legal regulation of this institution in Russia and other countries have theoretical and practical significance. For this reason, the proposed review will be based on a systematic study of the vast literature on the subject. Due to the fact that the chosen topic has juridical orientation different monographs, articles of national and foreign lawyers, legal experts devoted to the legal regulation of testamentary succession will be used as a basis in this research work. The term “testamentary succession” will be used as a basis in this research work. The term “testamentary succession” is extremely complex and multifaceted, that is why it seems effectually to limit it and focus on a will as the solid foundation of testamentary succession. 
Testamentary succession has a long history. It rooted in the most elementary fundamentals of Roman private law. The actual history of the development of this institution began with studies of ancient Roman lawyers. In the monograph Stern points out that the Roman private law had developed the most important concepts of testamentary succession. The author also ascertains that in the works of ancient Roman jurists inheritance law was considered as a way to acquisition of property in the event of the death of the previous owner and that the main basis of inheritance in Ancient Rome was testamentary succession but not legal succession. Afterwards, this legal institutions was borrowed by the legislation other civilized countries, including Russia. And it is worth noting that today the same provisions are contained in the Russian legislation. 
For this research work the recent studies of Russian and foreign lawyers deserve the most attention. The analysis of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation and the literature confirms the fact that the legal regulation of testamentary succession has gaps, drawbacks and shortcomings. In this regard, there are many different modern doctrines in this rapidly developing area of Russian law. Every legal scholar who was interested in the study of testamentary succession has tended to elaborate his own approach to the understanding of the legal regulation of this institution and the will as the basis form of inheritance. Recent studies, caused by the implementation of a new legislation on inheritance, found the need to narrow the focus of investigation of testamentary succession and to make them more specific. This viewpoint received wide support and thereby confirmed the necessity for deep analysis of inheritance relations and features of their legal regulation. This specified position reveals the attempt to decrease the gap between theory, legislation and practice. Numerous legal scholars scrutinize specific aspects of this legal institution. New modern direction and tendency reflects a potentially important aspiration to deepen the theoretical understanding of the general field of study. The scholars analyze the formalities impose by law on a person for making a testamentary disposal of property, revises them in comparative perspective, identifies theoretical and practical problems related to the legal regulation of this institute and offers scientific practical recommendation on improvement of current legislation. Krasheninnikov, Kirillovykh, explored the essence of the will as a way to dispose of the inheritance. Each of these authors gives different definitions of the will and different interpretations of law provisions.  The emergence of different approaches to the interpretation of the will was caused by the lack of definition in the Russian Civil Code. Malysheva, Kostina devoted their researches to the analysis of problems existing in theory and practice related to the legal regulation of testamentary succession in Russia. Some of the lawyers tried to compare the legal controlling instrument of testamentary succession in Russia with the similar legal controlling instrument of foreign countries. Ermolov tried to compare Russian testamentary secession with the same institution in German. The authors discovered that the institutions are partly similar, explaining it their belonging to the same legal system. The comparison between testamentary in Norway and in Russia was made by the Saitova. The author identified some types of the will that exist in Norwegian law but which are not allocated in the Russian legislation. Saraev does not compare testamentary succession in England with testamentary succession in Russia. He explained such choice by the fact that the legal regulation of testamentary succession in these countries is very different due to the fact that Russia belongs to the continental legal system, and England belongs to the common law system. He noted that testamentary succession is better regulated in England than in Russia. This statement is undeniable. The main reason for such inference is the fact that in England there is The Wills Act 1837- the special act, fixing the rules of drawing up of will and execution of a will. More than that, Saraev analyzed types of the will that can be drawn up in England and noted that there is a special type of the will in England -oral wills, which are also called privileged wills. The author is convinced in the necessity to include this type of the will in the Russian legislation. Critchley also marked the positive aspects of the privileged will and concluded that this type of the will is necessary for some certain categories of citizens: soldiers being in actual military service and mariners /seaman being at sea as they can get into an emergency and in such a way they will be not able to make a standard will on paper. The same position of another foreign author is contained in the article “Informal wills of soldiers and mariners” in which shortcomings and dignity of this type of the will were identified on the basis of judicial practice.
Along with that, there are different theories and approaches of foreign researchers to the understanding and regulation of testamentary succession. However, they are criticized by some of Russian lawyers and do not stand up to scrutiny because they refer to the inheritance of other countries belonging to another legal families. In this research work we will try to focus only on practical side of this issue. Zimmermann revealed the bequest features in the inheritance law of England and Wales. The author considered “the formalities which the law imposes for testamentary disposal of property”. Considering the process of inheritance in England, he paid attention to such a distinctive feature of English testamentary succession which is called the administration procedure. He also notes the appearance in English law of the beneficiary who after the procedure of administration and payment of debts receives the remaining property left by will. One more feature of the legal regulation of testamentary succession in England, identified by the author, was Codicil, which defined as an addition and integral part to the will.  Most of works of foreign authors does not analyze the problems of this institution and compare the legal regulation of testamentary succession of foreign countries with the Russian legislation. Mainly, the general aspects and types of the will, testamentary capacity and validity of the will were investigated in works of foreign scientist.
Methods
This part of the research proposal will focus attention on the methods used in carrying out the study. There is a multiplicity of ways to treat the institution of testamentary succession. In our research work we will use the general scientific dialectical method of cognition. Also private scientific methods of cognition were used in the work.  Along with that, the analytical method and the method of synthesis used to pinpoint the features, gaps and problematic aspects of the legal regulation of the explored institution in the literature. The collected information will be systematized with the help of special juridical methods. In our study we should like to have under observation the method of formal –logic analysis. Using this method we will be able to make useful and necessary recommendations for the further improvement of the Russian legislation and especially testamentary succession. In this section we also aim to examine in some detail the comparative legal method. This method is necessary for this research work as it allows to correlate the execution and practice of testamentary succession in Russia with the execution and practice of a similar institution in foreign countries. Using this method we will reveal the differences between the legal regulation of the explored institution in Russia and foreign countries. It will assist to find positive and negative sides of the legal regulation of testamentary succession in Russia.
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned, such as analytical method, method of formal –logic analysis and comparative legal method. Moreover, the study will be organized in terms of the specific research questions posed in part I: it first will report on the legal nature of the will as the basis of inheritance in Russian law and law of foreign countries, it then will examine the regulation of testamentary succession in Russia and foreign countries (German, England and etc.), finally it will explore the possibility of applying the positive foreign legal experience in this field. Such examination and conducted comparison will reveal the advantages and disadvantages of Russian testamentary succession. The data will rest on skill and care. The findings of this study will point out to the existence of gaps in the doctrine and the legal regulation of testamentary succession. The facts obtained will confirm the validity of our idea that the legal regulation of testamentary succession requires introduction of changes and amendments.
Conclusion
It appears from what has been discussed that Russian civil legislation, regulating the institution of testamentary succession, has shortcomings and contradictory provisions which entails many problems in practice. The problem identified in the study states the lack of interest of the Russian legislator and in the legal doctrine, among the scholars to the detection conflicting and controversial provisions in the regulation of testamentary succession. Although, there are many scientific works and approaches to study this field, most of works are aimed at exploring only the general provisions of the will or the legal regulation of only Russian testamentary succession, without identifying serious shortcomings and gaps in comparison with other countries of the same or different legal systems. The punch line of the research bases mainly on the necessity to examine the current state of the Russian legislation regulating this institution and the necessity to identify ways to solve such legislative problems. Primarily we will investigate the general characteristics of the will as the basis of inheritance in Russia and abroad. Then we will explore the regulatory arrangement of testamentary succession in Russia, in England, German, France and Norway. Using the comparative legal method we will try to pinpoint negative sides in the regulation of Russian testamentary succession. Using the results of this study, we suppose to suggest proposals to supplement or change the norms of the Russian legislation. And finally, we will try to summarize the material and outline the theoretical background for future researches.
