Problem statement. This proposal is intended to study and explore the measures of investigation and the problems of its legal regulation. The general purpose of this project is to show the necessity of changing the criminally-remedial legislation and to set forward some legislation amendments and a few new investigative actions.  
To completely achieve these purposes, it is demandable to solve the next research tasks:
To study the investigative proceedings in theoretical and practical aspects;
To investigate the problems of a crime detection under the conditions of information society;
To find out the loopholes;
To propose a project of changes the Russian criminally-remedial legislation.
Delimitations of the Study. The object of the research is the system of investigative actions and its practical significance, as well as the problems of its legal regulation. Most attention will be paid to IT criminal cases and the investigative actions which are effective and inescapable for such crimes. 
Professional Significance. A matter of paramount interest is to simplify crime detection in information sphere. In the present investigation I will show that the system of investigative actions can be understood in different though not incompatible ways. Also I will verify and if possible amplify the knowledge of outlawry in the Internet. Probably, my work will change a contemporary situation with detecting Internet crimes, will be helpful for lawyers, investigators, and will give a better understanding the dynamics of modern society. This work was done to provide a solid grounding for changes in Russian legislation.
Literature Review
The juridical base of this proposal was made by the Russian Criminal Code, the Russian Federation Code of Criminal Procedure and a few other Russian normative acts. 
A considerable amount of valuable work on the features of the investigative actions has been done to decrease the discrepancy between theory and reality. It can be explained by the fact that the list of investigative actions is not a thing that can have a broader interpretation. But in reality this prevents the investigation of criminal cases.  Numerous attempts have been done to resolve the loopholes and the problems between the list of investigative actions and the actual situation in the investigation. 
The basis for present study was provided by many modern lawyer’s works. First of all I would like to pay attention for “Opportunities of record-keeping of procedural actions in criminal judicial proceeding with the use of electronic (digital) means” written by Frolkin. The author explains the feasibility of using in the course of the proceedings of electronic documents, including electronic records of proceedings. It is impossible to overestimate the extraordinary importance of  Frolkin`s useful contribution. 
It is exceedingly important how much has been done in the academic paper by Leonov and Smagin. They gave the analysis of the use of information technology in the investigation of criminal cases, and, in particular, in the production of investigative actions, including those related to the limitation of constitutional rights of citizens. They made some suggestions about the use of modern information technologies in practical activities of investigative bodies.
It is very significant to point out the problem that it is difficult to fix the electronic results made by investigation. This problem was examined in the article by Sokolov. He touched upon the issues related to consolidation of information received by agencies of preliminary investigation in the course on execution of investigation of actions. 
This type of questions were considered in work by Pastukhov. His article discusses the foreign experience of legal regulation of the order of the use of electronic information in criminal procedure proving. Comparative legal analysis of the Georgian, Ukrainian, German law leads to the conclusion that should not be given a special kind of evidence - "electronic evidence". It is necessary to change the technology of proof - to free it from the investigation forms and introduce controversial orders. The most obvious example is given a written record of the investigative action from which to refuse.
Most of authors investigate a record of the investigative action (protocol). Gulcevich discussed the functions of investigative protocols, which are understood as their purpose and the role they perform in solving the problems of criminal proceedings. It is emphasized that the functions of investigative protocols have not been the subject of a comprehensive study so far.
Previous studies on system of investigative actions are often aimed at examine the system in the context of economic crimes. According to Borovskikh the use of modern electronic technologies for economic crimes prevention will produce a desired effect. Zhulanov and Ishenko found that the skillful use of investigator information technology, operating on the basis of information and computer systems, specialized data banks and telecommunications has a paramount importance in the investigation of economic crimes. An interesting lead to detect economic crimes was given by Chekunov. He considered issues concerning description in national criminal legislation of cybercrime problems and particularly fraud committed with application of computer (information) technologies. 
There is no doubt that frequently the experience of foreign countries can be advantageous for Russia. Danilkin is dedicated that criminalistic registration in Russia should develop with the use of experience of foreign countries. The author believes that establishment of scientific conception of further development of registration activity of law-enforcement agencies may be conducted in the course of wide discussion. Danilkin made a few suggestions for systematized recording of objects of criminalistic importance. Poleshuk and Prokhorova also mark a problem with registration. Their  article shows the most characteristic problems of informational-reference support. They give the analysis of the contents of work with reference information in the sphere of collection activity related to the search for the bearers of information; actions related to collection thereof, systematization and analysis thereof. 
Modern Russian legal practice includes some problems with the using of electronic documents from the Internet, as the evidence during the relevant process. Chamurov paid attention for the fact that there is a lack with the special rules of regulation of this sphere and electronic signature. The existing court practice on this issue is contradictory. Frequently, in specific legal trials, electronic documents are not considered as they should be, although they carry important information for the case. According to Budylin electronic documents, including SMS, must be taken into account as evidences.  Ryabtseva found that the implementation of information technology in the legal environment indicates the emergence of electronic proximity in criminal procedure relations.
There is the general tendency in the world practice in regard to implementation of e-justice elements in legal proceedings. Romanenkova discloses the contents of different definitions of e-justice. Also she made a system of e-justice elements that have already been and may be implemented in the nearest future.
Pchelintsev and Chirko suggest relying on, at least, the principles of awareness and freedom of participation. Based on specific examples, a conclusion is drawn that the effective legislation is not enough to regulate the contemplated problems. General approaches to each of the main legal problems of the "Internet of things" are suggested. 
Zharova presents her own definition of human identification on the Internet. The author defines the concept of “human identification on the Internet” as a set of legal, organizational and technical measures for the establishment of information on the Internet which allows to determine a person's identity and confirming the accuracy of this information in the following ways: by using the information of a registered user a single identification/authentication systems; or by using information obtained from providers, information intermediaries, service providers and others involved in the organization of human activities on the Internet in the framework of the relevant request for them to provide such information.
Some jurisprudents had made their works paying attention one investigative action. For example, Butenko analyzes such investigative action as mobile phone inspection, which is very poorly covered in scientific literature. The author deals specifically with both the forensic and procedural aspects of the investigative examination, since the regulation of the requirements for the inspection of mobile phones is in its infancy. Gribunov and Naryznny'j considered the digital photographing usage aspects in a crime scene description. They  highlights the particularities of exposure settings and the ways the crime scene photographing should be done.
All the literature discussed above confirms the relevance of my research and the necessity to change the criminal procedure legislation.
Methods
This part of proposal explain the methods used in carrying out the study. There are a great variety of methods for investigating the system of investigative actions in Russia. This framework is to a certain extent an evolving one and will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing. This work was made by using the logical method. The comparative method in the way of comparison theory and practice was the most effective one.  The method of system analysis was also effective to investigate and analyze the research problem. 
Results anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentionted. So, we can point out the next results anticipated:
The investigative proceedings were studied in theoretical and practical aspects;
The problems of a crime detection under the conditions of information society were investigated;
The loopholes were found out;
The changes for Russian Federation Code of Criminal Procedure were suggested;
Using this research investigators can simplify their work on electronic evidences.
Conclusion
The present research is intended to study and explore the measures of investigation and the problems of its legal regulation. The study was conducted using a large amount of modern literature. 
The proposal is based on three main methods: logical, comparative and the method of system analysis. 
This investigation will study the investigative actions and its practical significance, as well as the problems of its legal regulation. Most attention will be paid to IT criminal cases and the investigative actions which are effective and inescapable for such crimes. 
