Criminal procedure law provides for the possibility of applying state coercion to citizens who do not comply with the requirements of the law.
Other warnings of such failure are also possible. They can be of a different nature: civil law, administrative law, criminal law and criminal procedure. Measures of procedural coercion in criminal proceedings are applied during the period of criminal proceedings and are procedural in nature. They are applied by investigation bodies, judicial authorities within their powers, to persons participating in the case, whose inappropriate behavior may impede the successful course of criminal proceedings.
Measures of procedural coercion - these are decisions and actions of bodies that conduct proceedings in the case, provided for by criminal procedural law.
Considering the question of what measures of procedural coercion, it is necessary to study their main features: They have specific goals, based on the general purpose of criminal proceedings. It is used when there are legal grounds, conditions and procedures that guarantee their legality and validity. They have a special content and character. 
They are carried out against the will and wishes of citizens or objectively restrict their rights.
The general grounds and the extent to which procedural coercion measures are applied are the need to achieve the goals of justice, ensure the appropriate criminal procedure and the proper execution of the sentence. 
Measures of procedural coercion are used only in those cases when the appearance of obstacles to the movement of the case is really possible.
The aggravated relevance and lack of development and completeness of these problems determined the choice of the topic, goals and objectives of the study.
The subject of the study is the objective laws of the formation and functioning of the knowledge system.
The object of the study are measures of procedural coercion of a witness in criminal proceedings.
The normative base of the work is monographs, articles and literature on preventive measures, their types and use in the Russian Federation. Also, this study will be based on the regulatory framework of the Russian Federation, decisions of higher courts and judicial practice.
The purpose of the study is to analyze the methodological, legal, and organizational foundations of a procedural coercive measure witness in criminal proceedings.
To achieve this goal, a number of interrelated tasks were set:
- give a general description of the measures of procedural coercion in the criminal proceedings of the Russian Federation;
- to study the classification and types of measures of procedural coercion, their brief description;- обозначить проблемы применения мер процессуального принуждения;
- suggest ways to solve the problems of applying procedural coercion measures.
The study includes an introduction, two chapters, four paragraphs, conclusion, list of sources used, applications.
Main part
A) Research methodology. In this work, I will use the analysis method and the logical method of study. Analysis, because this work will be based on a certain amount of judicial practice, regulatory framework and theoretical material, which will need to be studied and analyzed. The logical method will be used because this work will systematize knowledge, and will also identify the problematic aspects of the application of preventive measures and ways to improve them. Also in this work, the method of legal hermeneutics will be used to interpret the meaning of the texts of federal laws and other legal acts.
B) A review of the literature and sources. In the legal literature, some problems of procedural coercion measures were considered in the works of Yu.M. Antonyana, V.A. Burka, D.P. Kotova, V.V. Luneeva, V.A. Hunter, I.P. Portnova, S.S. Yatsenko and others
List of used sources and literature
Regulations:
1. The Constitution of the Russian Federation (as amended by the Laws of the Russian Federation on amendments to the Constitution of the Russian Federation dated December 30, 2008 N 6-FKZ, dated 30.12.2008 N 7-FKZ, dated 05.02.2014 N 2 -FKZ, dated July 21, 2014 N 11-FKZ)
2. The Criminal Code of the Russian Federation: Federal Law of June 13, 1996 No. 63-FZ.
3. The Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation "dated December 18, 2001 N 174-ФЗ 
4. Federal Law of the Russian Federation of August 12, 1995 No. 144-ФЗ “On the operational-search activity”.
5. Federal Law of February 7, 2011 No. 3-FZ “On the Police”.
6. Resolution of the Plenum of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation of December 19, 2013 N 41 "On the practice of the application by the courts of the law on preventive measures in the form of detention, house arrest and bail".
Special literature:
7. Akhminova, Yu. Yu. House arrest as a preventive measure in domestic law.
8. Bezlepkin, B.T. Commentary on the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation (itemized).
9. Bezlepkin, B.T. A short guide for the investigator and the inquirer.
10. Bezlepkin, B.T. The criminal process of Russia.
11. Belonosov, V.O. Russian criminal process.
12. Bondarenko, I. P. Preventive measures in the system of measures of procedural coercion.
13. Vdovtsev P. Prevention of the commission of new crimes by the accused (suspect) as the purpose of the pledge.
14. Kattsyn A.A. About the essence of detention as a form of state coercion in criminal proceedings.
15. Commentary on the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation. Itemized.
16. Lazareva, V. A. Protection of personal rights in criminal proceedings.
17. Latushkin M.A. Classification problems of state - legal enforcement.
18. Nazarov A.D. Investigative and judicial errors in custody.
19. Scientific and practical commentary on the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation.
20. Ovchinnikov Yu.G. The grounds for choosing a preventive measure in the form of detention as one of the procedural guarantees of the rights of the suspect and the accused. 
17.Skabelin S.I. The totality of the data, which is sufficient to select a preventive measure in criminal proceedings.
21. Sudnitsyn A.B., Voronov D.A. The legality and validity of the application of a preventive measure in the form of detention: Textbook.
22. Trunov I.L., Trunova L.K. Preventive measures in criminal proceedings.
23. Criminal procedure law of the Russian Federation: Textbook.
24. The criminal process. Textbook.
25. The criminal process: a textbook for undergraduate law schools.
26. Hapaev I.M. The concept and significance of preventive measures in the form of detention in criminal proceedings.
27. Chervotkin A.S. Appeal and detention.
Applications
Source Referencing
Akhminova, Yu. Yu. House arrest as a preventive measure in domestic law.
This article discusses the evolution of house arrest standards in Russian law. Preventive measure in the form of house arrest, has long been known in domestic law. For the first time such a measure was provided for in the Code of Laws of 1832, then in the Charter of the Criminal Procedure of 1864. For a long time house arrest was preserved, but it was rarely used, and practitioners even made judgments about its inappropriateness. As a result, in the 1960 Code of Criminal Procedure (CCP) of the RSFSR, this measure was no longer provided for.
The measure was revived in the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation in 2001. It was provided for by Art. 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation, but did not specify the execution procedure, which immediately led to discussions not only among scientists, but also among practitioners, as a result of which the judicial and investigative practices of the election, extension and cancellation of house arrest varied significantly. Article 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation has undergone significant changes and additions, as a result, most of the problems have been removed, and law enforcement practice has become more uniform.
The introduction of a system of measures to prevent house arrest in the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation was due to the legislator’s desire to humanize criminal proceedings, reduce the practice of electing and applying preventive measures in the form of imprisonment and detention; ensure proper isolation of suspects and accused.
Skabelin S.I. The totality of the data, which is sufficient to select a preventive measure in criminal proceedings.
This article explores the issue of making a decision on choosing a preventive measure in the form of detention in criminal proceedings in Russia. For this purpose, judicial practice was analyzed, the problem of the validity and motivation of decisions on choosing a preventive measure in the form of detention in criminal procedure legislation was studied, an attempt was made to identify objectively existing criteria that influence the choice of a preventive measure. Based on the study, the author concluded that it is necessary to improve legislation and more detailed regulation of the amount of necessary data for choosing a preventive measure in the form of detention.
Trunov I.L., Trunova L.K. Preventive measures in criminal proceedings.
The paper reflects the modern problems of the application of preventive measures, their concept, types, goals and classification, the grounds for their application, their place in the system of criminal procedural coercion, which changed significantly with the adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure in 2001, namely, the procedure for applying measures preventive measures, their types and terms of application, subjects vested with the authority to apply preventive measures.
The new Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation caused certain difficulties, both from a theoretical and from a practical point of view. The author in his work indicates the lack of uniformity of law enforcement practice, and also offers recommendations for improving the legislation regarding the application of preventive measures in criminal proceedings (Chapter 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation). Conclusions, generalizations and suggestions formulated in this study can be used in studying the institution of preventive measures in the legislative process.
Sudnitsyn A.B., Voronov D.A. The legality and validity of the application of a preventive measure in the form of detention: Textbook. The training manual addresses issues that determine the legality and validity, conditions and grounds for applying a preventive measure in the form of detention, the prevailing judicial investigative practice is analyzed, the most common mistakes are identified, and ways to prevent them are proposed. The manual is addressed to cadets, students and students who are interested in applying preventive measures in the form of detention, as well as adjuncts (graduate students) of law schools, law enforcement officials.
Bondarenko, I.P. Preventive measures in the system of measures of procedural coercion.
The article considers the system of coercive measures in criminal proceedings and attempts to determine the place of preventive measures in it. The author concludes that the classification of procedural coercion measures presented in the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Russian Federation is not the only correct and acceptable one, and the variety of preventive measures included in the system of procedural coercion measures makes it possible to isolate individual preventive measures and relate them to different classification groups .
Nazarov A.D. Investigative and judicial errors associated with improper application of the criminal law and violations of its prohibitions.
Investigative and judicial errors related to the improper application of the criminal law are analyzed, their classification is given. The conclusion is substantiated that violations of the prohibitions established in the criminal and criminal procedure legislation are grounds for canceling the decisions of the preliminary investigation bodies and the court. A comparison is made with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights on such institutions as inadmissible evidence and inadmissibility of provocations. The issues of compliance with legal European standards of legislative provisions in criminal matters are considered.





