Introduction 
Background. The background of the research is due to the fact that during the implementation of the basic principles of the constitutional system in the Russian Federation a large number of shortcomings remain related to the issue of the legality of interference with the constitutional and conventional rights of a person. 
The Constitution obliges the state to protect these very rights, in particular from interference with them. The main authority responsible for the performance of these duties is the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation. In Russia, there are still practical cases of unsystematic and unbalanced interventions, which demonstrate imperfection of the legislation. 
Since the Russian Federation is actively integrating the norms and principles of international law into the domestic legal system, concluding various international treaties, it seems appropriate to consider the practice of protecting not only the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, but also the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, emphasis should be placed on minimizing conflicts between the legal positions of these two instances.
That is why, protection from interference with rights is a multidimensional concept that requires a detailed legal study that ensure the validity and necessity of the procedure in order to avoid any infringement.
Problem statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: a person is vulnerable to an imperfect system of justice, forcing him to assert his rights in higher authorities. It is necessary to challenge not only the judicial interpretation of certain provisions of the law, but also these provisions themselves, on the basis of which certain decisions were made. In addition, problems arise with the effectiveness of protection from such interventions with human rights.
The purpose is highlighting the legal aspects of protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights through a detailed study of the practice of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation and the ECHR. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
To give a general description of the protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights, revealing its key features;
To reveal the correlation of competencies of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation and the ECHR in the matter of protection from interference with constitutional (convention) rights;
To analyze the main aspects of protection from interference with human rights in the framework of the practice of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation and the ECHR.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the nature of protection of rights and its elements which allow to find a measure to support it. This determines some difficulties in correlation of national and international practice because of the essential difference of foreign and Russian legal systems. More than that one of the delimitation of the study is restricted access to the data on protection of rights due to the fact that not all foreign works are accessed on-line.
Professional Significance. The research streamlines the judicial practice of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation and the ECHR. In addition, it identifies the problems of resolving cases related to the claim of protection from interference with constitutional and convention rights and proposes new solutions to these problems.
Literature review
The aim of the reviewed article by A. Podmarev is to study certain aspects of constitutional regulation of restriction of human and civil rights and freedoms. The author notes that the legal status of a person is one of the main issues of the entire constitutional law, and consolidation of this status becomes one of the fundamental tasks of the branch. As one of the elements of constitutional regulation of the status of the person, the legislator considers the restriction of specific rights and freedoms.
The main problem raised in the article within the framework of the identified aim is an insufficiently clear and systematic understanding of restricting the rights of citizens, which often leads to unconstitutional and unlawful actions on the part of state representatives. The author focuses on the fact that for a complete understanding of this issue, it is necessary to analyze the basic theoretical principles of limiting human rights and freedoms, and only after constructing a certain logic, based on international experience, move on to specific restrictions.
According to S. Nesmeyanova and N. Kolobayeva restrictions of rights and freedoms are a necessary component of an person`s status. Points of view connected to restriction of rights in the constitutional legislation of Russia have changed and depended on historical conditions. The Constitution of the Russian Federation enshrines a large list of rights and freedoms and establishes rules under which these rights and freedoms can be limited.
The authors illustrate cases when the restriction of human rights does not comply with the requirements of the Constitution. Following such requirements is complicated by the fact that striking a balance between the interests of one person and whole society requires taking into account many factors. It is difficult to achieve proportionality of the restriction, but it is necessary, because only with the observance of these principles the restriction will be legitimate.
The author of the article Y. Kozeurov emphasizes that in the framework of the recognition of the supremacy of the Constitution within the Russian legal system, the need to comply with international obligations does not disappear. In this regard, the failure to fulfill the obligations assumed by the Russian Federation should be justified by serious references to the higher legal power of the Constitution. Consequently, only rules adopted in the international legal system can exclude international liability.
The international community gives the state sovereignty. The state is authorized to establish its own regime, choose a development vector and have unique legislation. But at the same time, as the author Macklem claims, the state must take into account the requirements of the international community, first of all, in the matter of universal human rights and freedoms that are inseparable from the person under any circumstances.
Chilton puts focus on the problem of the effectiveness of the constitutional provisions. To solve it author suggests to empower interested social groups. For example, trade unions or political parties can organize protests and pickets in addition to the trial and influence the authorities. 
Budayev emphasizes the need to strike a balance between pan-European values expressed in the positions of the ECHR and traditional values of Russia expressed in the Constitution of the Russian Federation. The author suggests ways to overcome disagreements between the Constitutional Court and the ECHR, including through improving the legislative framework for the implementation of the decisions of the ECHR in Russia, as well as the use of various mechanisms for adjusting the text of the Constitution.
Russia preserves the features of the post-Soviet era in national justice and allows inconsistencies with international standards, to which, in accordance with its obligations, it should strive. The author Kovler emphasizes that such neglect turns into problems up to the failure to enforce court decisions. Pluralism of opinions is unacceptable. The principles of the court have been developed for a long time, and they are needed to achieve justice and balance between the interests of the individual and society. Ignoring these principles in modern realities, according to the author, means neglecting freedom of a person.
The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms establishes inalienable rights and freedoms for everyone and obliges states to guarantee these rights to everyone. The main difference between the Convention and other international human rights treaties is the existence of a mechanism for protecting declared rights - the European Court of Human Rights, which hears individual cases of violations of the Convention. The document enshrines, for example, the right to life, to a fair trial, to freedom of thought and conscience, and many others. Russia recognizes the Convention as a source of law and the state is obliged to ensure that all its citizens are not suffering from violation of the Convention.
The Constitution is a normative legal act having the highest legal force, adopted by the people in a referendum and regulating the foundations of the organization of society and the state, the legal status of the individual.
The Constitution regulates the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as the ways to protect them with the help of the state. In addition, it regulates the foundations of the political system (form of government, political regime). The Constitution is the guiding law; it defines the ideas that society aspires to.
It contains 9 chapters and 137 articles:
1. The basics of the constitutional order.
2. The rights and freedoms of man and citizen.
3. Federated device.
4. President of the Russian Federation.
5. The Federal Assembly.
6. The government of the Russian Federation.
7. The judiciary.
8. Local government.
9. Constitutional amendments and revisions of the Constitution.
Among the existing federal constitutional laws, the Law on the Judicial System of the Russian Federation occupies a special position. He determined the courts of the stares of the Federation — constitutional (charter) courts and magistrates. By this law, the federal courts include:
1. The Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation;
2. the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, the supreme courts of the republics, regional and regional courts and equal to them courts, district courts, military and specialized courts;
3. The federal arbitration courts of the districts, the arbitration courts of the states of the Russian Federation.
Methods 
For examination of protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights of a person, various scientific methods will be used such as general scientific and specially legal methods. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating the procedure of challenging the provisions of the law and its judicial interpretation, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of Russian system of justice. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of the Constitutional Court of Russian Federation and enforcement of ECHR decisions and to identify the legal mechanisms of protection of rights in this area. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of Russian and international legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of protection from interference with rights in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the mutual rights and obligations of the Court and the citizen, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of hearing cases about illegal limitations of constitutional or conventional rights of a person. 
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights of a person and the data on the court practice in this field show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by Podmarev, Macklem, Kolobayeva and others reveals that Russian legal system is developed enough to protect humans rights from illegal limitations. It means that Russian Federation can solve such cases using only national system of law. I infer that the problem of protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights should be considered as an international issue. This gives the perspective of accepting international judicial principles into Russian legal system. Achieved outcomes, based on doctrine and court practice, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the process of improving of national system of justice. I hope my research and new ideas given there can assist the scientific society to solve risen problems.
Conclution
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that protection of rights in the Constitutional Court and in ECHR have different efficiency. It means that, from one hand, decisions of ECHR should have a priority, but on the other hand, the Constitutional Court can block their legal force. This does not follow from previous researches on due to the lack of actual court practice. 
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to scientific doctrine. In the context of protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights, another interesting aspect emerges, that of the unique aspects of protection of personal, politic and economic rights. 
The findings are essential for law theory and legal practice. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for law and international relationships learners to differentiate national and international levels of protection, to use proper terminology in the sphere of protection from interference with constitutional and conventional rights of a person.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of rights protection for further study of activities of the Constitutional Court and ECHR as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
