Introduction
Background. The last two-three years in Russian Federation, on account of the unstable economic situation, as a reason of 
lay-off  the amount of  loans, provided by banks to legal entities, there are  some consequences as a quiet buying capacity, setback in production, the problem of non-payment of social benefits, wages became acute, discuss and exciting. The issue under question plays a vital role in modern science. Having regard to the above, the supervision over the observance of labor rights of citizens is becoming a priority in the activities of law enforcement agencies. Arrears of payment of social welfares are growing with each passing month, and its size is large enough. A large number of inter-agency meetings, conferences, discussions and reports are held on the subject of the violation of labor rights of citizens, in terms of non-payment of wages. One of the ways to protect labor rights is to attract employers to criminal liability under Art. 145. 1 of the Criminal Code of Russian Federation.
Problem Statement. The main purpose of this work is to determine the problems of the preliminary investigation in cases about non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions and other social payments. Seen in their relations to the general purpose, a number of specific tasks should be emphasized:
1. To provide insight into the preliminary investigation as an independent form of  an introductory investigation;
2. To analyze features of investigative and other procedural actions;
3. To determine the features of prosecutor's supervision, judicial control, and interagency cooperation.
Professional Significance. On these grounds the article 145.1 of Criminal Code of Russian Federation was virtually dormant, wherefore in the science of criminal investigation process, the study of these problems is at a low level, and therefore the study of the procedural aspect of employers' criminal liability under Art. 145.1 of the Criminal Code appeared not mach time ago of the criminal law of scientific thoughts. Previous studies do not pay attention to such problem, that is why there are no fundamental researches in Russian scientific doctrine. Our study will provide the recommendations to prosecutors, investigators and other practicing lawyers, which may help to solve some issues.
Delimitations of the Study. The paper aims to give a comprehensive account of pretrial investigation of criminal cases about nonpayment of salary, pensions, scholarships and other payments. But we are not considering in details the stage of initiation of criminal case and the judicial stage. We analyze these aspects of criminal cases about nonpayment of salary, pensions, scholarships and other payments only in context of our research, without further specification.
Literature Review
The question of criminal liability is not simple and in different countries the approaches are controversial.  In USA, for example, the state laws provide a variety in liability of managers and directors. Some states, such as New York, Washington and Illinois, have established managers, officers and directors personally liability and New York has imposed criminal penalties. Other states, such as California and Nevada, have refused to extend personal liability to corporate agents for claims based on state wage law. Moreover, the federal laws do not contain the single definition of «employers». One of the main document is the Federal Worker Adjustment Retraining and Notification Act (the WARN Act) is promulgated to prevent mass layoffs but has not been interpreted to impose personal liability on individual corporate agents. 
In the countries of common system of law pre-trial procedure is significantly different from the pre-trial investigation in Russian Federation. One of the main features of the preliminary investigation in United States is that this activity is regulated by state laws. The U.S. Constitution's Bill of Rights, the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Fourteenth Amendments, The U.S. Constitution, the Federal Rules is the main documents. The preliminary investigation on criminal cases in United States is carried out the law enforcement agencies. The prejudicial criminal procedure is based on principles, which are guaranteed by the Constitution, one of them is privacy, it means, that no one can disturb your private life and ownership; it is also appearing in necessity to obtain a search warrant in the court. The Criminal Court of Russian Federation contains the same guarantee.  Moreover defendants have a right to remain silent and to have an attorney present during the interrogation. In Russian Federation the investigator is obliged to provide defendants with a lawyer, if he did not conclude the contract with his own attorney for the defense. Another guarantee for the defendants is a speedy trial. It means that prosecutors cannot wait an inordinate amount of time before filing charges or proceeding with the prosecution after filing charges and a trial must begin within 70 days of the prosecutor filing the indictment. But the Russian legislation does not include those provisions of the law. In USE, for example, the law enforcement agencies create their own line of prosecution and produce its in court, but the Fifth Amendment provide to defendants the right to call their own witnesses, mount their own evidence, and present their own theory of the facts. In pre-trial procedure the defense might raise a defense of double jeopardy, which prohibits anyone from being prosecuted twice for substantially the same crime.
In American and England system pre-trial procedure does not have a criminal nature, it is regulated by administrative laws and undistinguishable from operational investigations. One of the aspects of our research is the final act of investigation, New Zealand legislation includes the norms, that if the investigator proves the persons guilty, the charging documents are enacted. In USA legislature also contains a probability for «white-collar» offences escape criminal responsibility, if he conclude deferred prosecution agreement. These agreements require companies to admit offences, cooperate with the government in its prosecution of individual employees; pay substantial fines; implement stringent corporate governance guidelines; and agree to external oversight by a court-approved independent monitor. 
As for the Russian proceeding, in this paper we refer to the works by practicing lawyers, for instance barristers, investigators, judges who focuses on problems of preliminary investigation on the point of curial aspects. Batyagina E.Y., the helper of barrister, proposes the definition of the objective aspect of crime. Moreover the author indicates the actions shows the merchant or other personal interest of subject of the crime on non-payment of wages and other social benefits. The author demonstrates some examples of the objective side of the employer’s actions, which may indicate the presence of intent in the actions. For example, according to author’s point of view, in the cases, when the founder of the organization is both the director and the organizer of company and waists organization’s money on development of company, with the understanding that if the profit of organization would increase and the size of dividends would enhance too, such actions may be qualified as the merchant motivation. No less the selfish interest in the actions of the company’s administrator will be identified, if he makes a cash contribution, organization’s money, to the bank, in order to generate interest; invests in financial instruments; gives loans and financial assistance to other organizations; uses the company's cash in his own needs, such as on vacation; issues the wages only to employees who are in the inner circle of the employer. This self-serving interest of the employer may manifest when the funds, which should be directed to the payment of salaries, expenses to management personnel’s travels, and when the high salaries to manager is established.
Methods
One of the main methods of research work is formal-legal approach, which consists of the study of legal norms, "dogma" of the right and logical relationships. In the study of the norms of the Criminal Code in relation to employment, the Civil Code and the Constitution manifests formal-legal method. We recall that the article 145. 1 of the Criminal Code provides for liability for non-payment of wages, stipends, pensions and other social payments. The term wages assumes an employment relationship between the employees and the employer, for their establishment requires an analysis of civil and labor law, on the basis of which I have highlighted features of the employment relationship, which will help the investigators to solve one of the major issues in the classification and investigation of this category of cases, moreover, the social multiple payments are regulated by federal laws, departmental normative legal acts, as well as the legislation of Russian Federation
In addition, the rule of law in this paper is considered in the context of historical development, that is, we study the dynamics of the criminal law of the employers' liability for non-payment of wages in time, this shows the historical and legal method. The paper presents the profile that has been drawn up by me, to analyze in particular the knowledge of investigators matters relating to criminal cases under Art. 145. 1 of the Criminal Code of Russian Federation were asked in particular to understand the differences of the employment relationship of civil law, it was conducted interviews with investigators of the Investigation Committee on the topic - investigative and other procedures of this category of cases. In order to identify the most pressing issues, it is impossible to do without questioning, that is the sociological method, and this method also helps to identify the views of practicing law enforcement personnel. 
The paper also contains a large amount of numerical data developed using the statistical method. This sum of arrears of wages and other social payments, the number of prosecutions recorded messages about the crime, the number of convictions and sentencing. 
Results Anticipated
We are confident that upon completion of our investigation, we can achieve the goal that set for ourselves with the help of the tasks. Moreover we could find out features of preliminary investigation in cases of non-payment of wages, stipends, pensions and other social payments, as well as offer practicing lawyers advice that can help readers of our work. However, as the scope of work is limited, we will consider the stage of preliminary investigation only within the boundaries of the law and practice of Russian Federation. Since most of the practices associated with non-payment of wages, our research will be focused on labor relations. 
We plan to study the materials of pre-investigation, registered in the investigative agencies of the Investigative Committee of Russian Federation, as well as cases that are at the stage of investigation and proceedings, which already was convicted. It is necessary to establish the boundaries of the study, due to the fact that, in our opinion, it will help the most detailed study of the stated topic.
Conclusion
During researching, especially issues of investigative and other procedural actions of the investigation of crimes under Art. 145. 1 of the Criminal Code. In particular, these features are associated with a latency of this group of crimes, which caused by a large amount of documentation, touched upon the validity of the application of preventive measures. In the research the issues that arise during the qualification of the crime are identified, in particular the subject of criminal responsibility and the subjective side.  A significant amount of judicial practice is given in our study and some recommendations are derived. The forms of the preliminary investigation’s forms of the end are considered, in particular the issues of termination of the criminal investigation in connection with damages. An important part of the study was the consideration of the issues of prosecutorial oversight and judicial control in the investigation of cases, and investigated the possibility of inter-agency cooperation between the authorities whose competence includes the protection of labor and social rights of citizens, identified the problem and presents possible solution.



