Introduction
Background. The budget law is one of the major sub-sectors of financial law and it plays a key role in the mechanism of functioning of the state that ensures observance of the rights of persons living on its territory. However, such maintenance of can be properly developed only through the fiscal system. Russia is a social state, therefore, a significant part of the resources spent on the sustenance of society. We all need in protection of our country from external enemies, quality health services, in education, in infrastructure development, in pension provision. It can be achieved only on the condition planned revenues and expenditures of the state. The budgeting is intended implement such a distribution of funds in the treasury. Thus, the study of the budget process is necessary in the context of law, and a more profound analysis process will help to identify ways of improving it, which is important in an ever-changing realities.
Problem Statement. The main purpose of this research is to explore the basics of the budgeting in the Russian Federation. In order to achieve the proposed aim, it is necessary to complete the following tasks:
1. to study and analyze the evolution of the concept of the budget, types of budgets;
2. to consider the stages of formation and development of the budget and the budget process in Russian;
3. to analyze a conceptual framework of the budgeting;
4. to conduct a comprehensive analysis of the participants of the budget process, determine their role in the budget process, to carry out their classification;
5. to identify the main problems of budgeting;
6. to develop the scientific recommendations for improving fiscal and procedural legislation.
Professional Significance. Research of indicated problems has immediate practical value. Everyone faces the problem of resource allocation. It is actual both in private life and in the public sphere. The subject of study is the public sector, specifically, the public budget process. Budgeting is one of the areas of government activity. For instance, it is the authority of the Ministry of Finance and various departments. In addition, legislatures are empowered to make a budget. Thus, a large number of participants involved in the budget process. Therefore, the study of practically applicable and justified. Discussed problems and proposed solutions can help improve budgeting. Novelty of the research consists in the comprehensive study of the process at all levels, in the assessment of recent changes in legislation and making recommendations. 
Delimitations of the Study. The study is affected the range of issues that are directly related to the budget law in general and in particular with the budgetary legal relations, with the budgetary system. Government policy plays an important role in the field. It is possible select the territorial limits - examination of the problem at the federal level, at level of subjects and at the local level. 
Literature Review
The current state of the budget process is inextricably linked and dependent on the history of formation of the budget system. For qualitative analysis of the budgeting, we need to turn to the historical component. The issue is discussed in study of Dmitry L. Komyagin «Budget reforms in Russia: results and perspectives». Dmitry Komyagin highlights the reasons for such reforms as a response to external posers and a way of acceptance to changing circumstances. The author identifies the following historical stages: 
1) The era of Peter the Great (wide modernization, the cause of which - military considerations);
2) 1801 – 1811  reforms (related with M. M. Speransky);
3) Reforms in 1862 (the emergence of fiscal unity, budget regulation and the budget publicizing);
4) Reforms in 1906 (the State Duma received the authority to debate and affirm budget articles);
5) The Soviet Period (the budgeting was included into the system of state gliding);
6) Modern reforms (reforms focused on the establishment of the fundamental principles, balancing of the budget system, the development of inter-budgeting bonds and transition to medium-term gliding of budget).
In addition, Dmitry Komyagin concentrates on the reasons for reforming the current budgetary system. Thus, he relates to the causes elaboration of all classes of budget actions, expansion of the Budget Code of the Russian Federation to spread a greater diapason of legal relations and the interconnection with the reforms of other areas (administrative and military reforms). Reform of the budgeting was primarily undistracted on growing the productivity of budget spending and the improvement of gliding. 
Besides Dmitry Komyagin such scholars as Mstislav Afanasiev and Natalia Shash considered reforms of recent years.  The article «The introduction of program budgeting in Russia: 20 years of experience with Russian budgetary reforms» indicates that the conversion to program budgeting took place in 1995. We know about existence of special programs of budgeting in the beginning of the 21th century that became the significant methods of haunting the structural politics of the state and of actively operating social and economic progress. Afanasiev, Belenchuk and Shash argue that these programs have not grown actually working. Later the Government has improved such programs and it was a step in the appearance of results-based budgeting and medium-term financial planning. These changes have greatly improved the budgeting and made it steadier. 
Anyway, today we can identify a number of problems of the budget process. Among these posers - difficulties in choosing options for the productiveness of state programs due to their polyhedral kind and structural inequality, discords between the members of the budgeting in relation to the compound and framework of spending, obligatoriness of developing the system of supervision, the adoption of tools for estimating efficiency. To make the programs more efficient, the Government should draw attention to such components as the plain wording of the purpose, elaboration of a consequential framework for the program, a sound method for estimating program efficiency. 
For understanding the problems of studies, it is necessary to apply to the basic concepts of the budgeting. Considered that a good budgeting is not only preparation of a document by the Government but also political, administrative, communication, gliding and financial aspects. In legal science, each concept is usually associated with certain principles of its application. Therefore, by analyzing scientific works, we can identify a number of principles of budgeting. First principle - the establishment of wide purposes of Government in making its decisions. Second principle - development of approaches to rich the objectives. Third principle – elaboration of a budget document in accordance with approaches to rich the goals. Fourth principle - assessment of efficiency and making amendments. Based on the principles, we can conclude that budgeting should be the core of continuous and decision-making processes whose purpose - to allocate resources and choose the main directions. 
Budgeting is a key element in the study. This process involves several stages: 1) drafting, 2) consideration and approval, 3) execution and 4) financial control. Many works are devoted to the analysis and evaluation of these stages. For example, OECD conducted a comprehensive analysis of budgeting in Russia. According to this analysis, the economic situation in Russia has become more stable including budgetary process. Contributing factor was the introduction of three-year budgets, stringent fiscal rules and significant Government restrictions relating to the extra-budgetary actions. Three-year budgets ensure predictability of spending and give the opportunity to make perennial contracts. Fiscal rules provide a stable financial development of the state and ensure a balance in the financial markets. The Ministry of Finance plays an important role in budgeting pursuing goals such as making and implementing the budget, effective governance, benign tax regulation and stability of macroeconomic. The Russian Federation has made great efforts to elaborate productivity information about spending, for instance, known to us e-budget project. OECD describes parliamentary budget process as clear, open, and providing enough time for research and parliamentarian initiatives. In addition, Russia has built up a modern and successfully operating Treasury organization and created favorable conditions for the financial statements. 
Any process, including budgeting, has some risks and the state must be aware of these risks in order to avoid adverse effects. Julia Vlasova has proposed the most interesting approach to this issue in the article «Budget Risks of Russian Federation Regions, Determination and the Application in the Budget Process» (Vlasova, 2015). Risk is an event that can occur with a certain probability, and which have a negative effect on policy. Different risks may arise under the influence of economic downturn and unfavorable external conjuncture. The author divides all of the risks to the economic (credit risks, rising scale of deficit), technical and organizational. Thus, the Government should use risk-oriented approach to improve budgeting.
Overall, the study based on analysis of historical component, an analysis of the basic theoretical concepts and analysis of legislation. Historical analysis allows us to track the patterns of development of the budget process, the theoretical concepts allow allocating the standards of budgeting and legislation analysis directly shows the characteristics of modern condition of the process. 
Methods
To achieve the goals it is necessary to use certain methods. Field study of the budget process identifies a number of specific methods. A study of the budgeting at the time requires an application of a historical analysis. This method helps to trace the patterns of development of the budget system, because that the improvement of this sector is impossible without analyzing past. Great importance is the study of mistakes, it helps to prevent their recurrence in the future. 
Another important method is the method of system analysis. Application of this method is the primary component in the study of legal norms that regulate the budget process. Laws must analyzed in aggregate, the only way to obtain a comprehensive assessment of this sector. Should also consider not only the laws but also regulations. In analyzing, the legal framework follows apply the comparative legal method and the methods of induction and deduction. Great importance is the comparison of old and new version of the laws, the analysis of changes. Induction and deduction allows characterizing the participants and stages of the budget process. For instance, consecutive analysis of each stage of the budgeting allows to fully appreciating the whole process. Comparative legal method used in the study of the national legal system and foreign legal systems. A comparison of legal systems is necessary to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the domestic legislation. It can be beneficial to borrow some aspects of state regulation.
The logical method used in all stages of research, since it is important to observe logic in the study questions. It is essential to build up the structure of the work, to identify the necessary tasks and consistently consider issues at stake. With the help of logical method draws conclusions in the offered solutions to the problems identified. 
Results Anticipated
We expect that the outcome of the study would be achieving all the goals. Firstly, we will evaluate the historical process of formation of the budget system of the Russian Federation. Based on this analysis, we will identify patterns of development of the budget process. Secondly, we will analyze the legal framework of the budgeting in the country, identify gaps and conflicts in law and suggest solutions and ways of improving the legislation.  In addition, we give a complete characterization of the stages of the budgeting and its participants evaluate their role in this process. This characteristic can lead to the revision of the existing system and the proposal a new approach to the organization of the budget process. We also consider the new version of the Budget Code of the Russian Federation and suppose what changes it may cause. Besides, we expect to make a comparative analysis of the Russian budget process and the budget process in foreign countries. This comparison may serve as a basis giving recommendations on improving the domestic legislation. 
Conclusion
The result of the study is the achievement of all the goals. We gave a comprehensive analysis to the budget process in the Russian Federation, and described all the components of this process. The key point is to reveal all the problems and the proposal of solutions. The results of research fully confirm the relevance and practical importance of the issue.



