Introduction
Background. The research project is devoted to the employee`s rights for work and for education. In the field of Russian labour law most researches define the right for work as a right of fair and safety working conditions. The project deals with the nature of employee`s education as a process of taking professional skills in the sphere of labour. 
In Russian law there are several forms of employee`s education: the professional training, the professional retraining and the improving of qualification. The problem of the lack of workers qualification is considered one of the most controversial issues in the labour law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars.  There are two main approaches to resolve this question: qualification improvement and professional retraining. Both of these approaches have the aim of acquisition knowledge but their main difference is that professional retraining refers to a new sphere for employees. 
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: the fragmentation of the legislation regulating the issue of employee`s training leads to difficulties in legal practice and violation of the workers’ rights by employers. In addition, there are no rules on the responsibility of the parties in case of failure or unsatisfactory completion of training by an employee, and there is no formulation of valid reasons for dismissal before the expiration of the student agreement. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to analyze the legal regulation of professional training of workers in the context of the right for work and the right for education, reveal gaps in the labour legislation and elaborate methods for improving it. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
1. To study issues related to the constitutional right for education and its realization by employees;
2. To identify correlation of different forms of employee`s training;
3. To analyze the main features of forms of employee`s training;
4. To reveal legislative gaps in the regulation of this issue and develop proposals for improving labour legislation.
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the nature of the right for work and the right for education and its connection with different forms of employee`s training which allow elaborating measures that can be taken for improvement of labour legislation. This determines some difficulties in interpretation of various approaches to the concept of professional training and delineation of it from professional retraining and qualification improvement. 
The concept of professional training has been widely studied over the past few decades; however, these studies considered professional training only as the part of production apprenticeship. As for professional retraining, this type of professional education was studied in conjunction with professional training and qualification improvement. More than that one of the delimitation of the study, connected with the previous one, is the lack of legislation in the legal regulation of these forms.
Another aspect of professional training which makes the concept of employee`s training stand out among other issues of labour law is that The Labour Code of the RF defines relations for professional training as student relations. This is the fact of paramount relevance since the question of the form and conditions of such agreement arises. 
And finally, the last delimitation is a small amount of judicial practice related to this issue due to the fact that many employees do not know their rights and do not understand the violation of it.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first task to deal with is to analyze the concept of professional training of employees and its forms in Russia. This will allow analyzing the key features of professional training, professional retraining and qualification improvement and developing criteria for the correlation of it. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile to analyze approaches to formalizing the training relations between the employee and employer proposed by various articles. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to analyze the Labour Code of the RF and decrees of the Government of the RF articles on employee training to formulate probable measures to be taken for effective regulation of it in Russian legislation.
The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for various students of law faculties, and lawyers who deal with the labour disputes. Moreover, the studied issue is of particular interest to all employers and workers who are interested in providing their rights.
Literature review
The legal framework of the study is based primarily on acts of international law. The rights of the worker, including the right for work and the right for education, are derived from human rights, and it is necessary to refer to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  The Declaration consists of 30 articles affirming an individual's rights which, although not legally binding in themselves, have been elaborated in subsequent international treaties, economic transfers, regional human rights instruments, national constitutions, and other laws.
In the field of work, ILO documents are of great importance, in particular, the Vocational Training (Adults) Recommendation No. 88 which gives the expression of vocational training. It means any form of training for employment by means of which technical, trade or supervisory knowledge or skill can be acquired or developed, whether the training is given inside or outside an undertaking, and includes retraining. There is also the Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Recommendation No. 111 which is aimed at ensuring equal opportunities in the sphere of the employment. 
Finally, the Vocational Training Recommendation No. 117 applies to all training designed to prepare or retrain any person for initial or later employment or promotion in any branch of economic activity. It proclaims training as developing a person's occupational capacities, due account being taken of the employment opportunities, and of enabling him to use his abilities to the greatest advantage of himself and the community. 
The analysis of Russian legislation should begin with the Constitution of the Russian Federation, which proclaims the basic rights and freedoms of a citizen. Among the legal acts of the Russian Federation the main ones will be the Labor Code of the Russian Federation, which fixes the legal status of subjects of labor relations.
The purposes of the labor law shall be setting official state guarantees of the labor rights and freedoms of the nationals, creating favorable conditions for work, protecting rights and interests of employees and employers. The main objectives of the labor law shall be creating the necessary legal conditions for achieving an optimal harmonization of the parties to labor relations' interests and the state's interests. 
The Labor Code includes statements such as:
• job placement with a specific employer;
• professional training, retraining and skill improvement of employees;
• material liability of employers and employees;
• social partnership;
• participation of employees and of labor unions in determining working conditions;
• surveillance and control of compliance with the labor law;
• settlement of labor disputes.
The Law on Education is also a comprehensive act that combines both general provisions and norms which are governing relations in individual education subsystems. 
It fixes the basic principles of the Law on Education of the Russian Federation:
• equal rights of all citizens in obtaining education;
• unconditional priority of the educational system;
• emphasis on the education of not only literate, but also a cultural member of society;
• translation of the learning process into a civilized legal format;
• autonomous secular character of all educational institutions;
• the opportunity to receive education at any age from any profession.
The project focuses on the difficulties faced by persons combining work with professional training. On the basis of international law, the provisions of the Constitution of the Russian Federation and the decisions of the constitutional Court of the Russian Federation we can make the conclusion about the differentiated approach to determination of the amount of guarantees provided to employees who are combining work with training. It is noted that providing more guarantees for employees who are receiving the appropriate level of education is not the first time would meet the needs not only of the employee but the employer and the state.
In foreign publications on employee`s training, the employer does not have clear boundaries between professional training and training under the learning contract. A learning contract is understood as a document concluded with an employee to obtain professional skills at a particular workplace with the assistance of a mentor (supervisor). The article by Breko D. attracts particular attention to the fact that already in 2003 (the year the article was written), the learning contract was considered as an important tool for promoting an employee`s career. 
This approach is significantly different from the situation in the Russian Federation, because employee`s training is often provided by the employer only in order to meet formal requirements (for example, a professional standard), and the employee himself agrees to training only in case of urgent need (for example, when he is forced to look for a new job).
At the same time, the author of the article assumes that the employee himself must take the initiative in training, because one of the main goals of training is to develop the desire for independent and continuous knowledge. It is impossible to disagree with the author that the modern world is becoming more unpredictable, the economy is unstable, and artificial intelligence more and more displaces a living worker and puts him before the need to constantly increase his importance for the employer. 
At the same time, Russian scientists have already argued about the importance of taking into account the opinion and initiatives of the employee when deciding on his training.
The other foreign article raises the issue of assigning labor rights to human rights and considers three possible approaches: positivistic, instrumental and normative. In our opinion, the right for work should not be considered outside the context of fundamental human rights; these rights are closely related. In particular, the exploitation of labor also leads to violation of human dignity. However, for the correct application of the law, the right for work should be considered independent and studied separately, which corresponds to the normative approach.
To sum up, in the process of studying this topic the norms of legislation, law enforcement practice and the points of view available in science was analyzed. 
Results anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the work devoted to the problem of the lack of worker`s qualification and the data on the labour legislation show that there will be several outcomes. 
The analysis of works by legal scholars reveals a differentiated approach to determination of the amount of guarantees provided to employees who are combining work with professional training. It means that employees who have an appropriate level of education is not for the first time have less benefit. They regard it as violation of the worker`s rights for work and for education. 
However, it is important to consider the need not only of the employee but also the employer and the state. I infer that the problem of limitation of the worker`s opportunities to be educated should be explored taking into account the concerns of all the parties. This gives the perspective of making appropriate improvements of the Labour Code of the RF.  
Achieved outcomes, grounded on articles and monographs, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the development of effective proposals. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice. The data is presented by court cases. It shows that workers are not enough acquainted with their rights and rarely apply to court. It also gives details on the dependence of the decision about training on the employer`s opinion.  The results support the idea that employers are not interested in the improvement of their workers qualification. It is assumed that it raises the risk of workers mobility and gives them the right for job promotion. 
All this determines the solution of the problem as professional training plays a fundamental role in labour legislation and contributes greatly to providing the right of employees for work. I hope my research will be beneficial to solve the problem of the labour legislation improvement. 
Methods
For examination of professional training, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating professional training, professional retraining and qualification improvement as well as to predict its further development within the framework of rights and guarantees provided to employees who are combining work with education. 
The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of the Russian and foreign legislation in the sphere of the employee`s training in order to identify similarities and differences. It is also useful to elaborate proposals of appropriate improvements of the Labour Code of the RF.
The law-sociological method will be used to collect and analyze empirical data that reflect the real state of processes in society. The functional method allows to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of the employer and the employee and to identify the legal mechanisms of bringing to justice for violation of the student agreement. 
Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of both the parties (the employer and the employee), to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of professional training. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to identify the formation of a tendency to transform the right of employees for education from the right-opportunity to the right-claim. It means that active development of technologies increasing competition in the labour market. In addition, the concept of continuing education becomes more significant which requires that workers should constantly update their knowledge and skills.  
The potential for this research lies, first of all, in systematization and generalization disparate legislation in the field of employee`s training in order to detect its shortcomings that cause difficulties in law enforcement practice. The identified gaps in legislation, as well as problems of practical application of labor law, together with the proposed ways to resolve them, determine the significance of the study. The work also raised the issue of introducing new types and forms of employee training, which is associated with the active development of technologies.
The findings are essential for legislation improvement. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for scientists to differentiate forms of worker`s education, to use proper terminology and to explore the relations in the sphere of labour law. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing on labour law, legal experts, and law enforcement officials.
I believe that the methods used in the study can be fruitful in the long term, as they open up a number of new opportunities for improving legislation in accordance with new trends in society and labour market.  Moreover, they serve to develop a common approach to understanding the employee's right for education as part of their right for work.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of employee`s education for further study of professional training as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
