Introduction
Background. The independent guarantee is usually required when it comes to specific business agreements that require stronger commitment and assurance that all contractual obligations will be implemented exactly as indicated. The value of this tool is emphasized in the definition of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation from 28.07.2016 N 305-ЭС16-3999 in the matter of N A40-26782/2015: "...Institute of Bank guarantee aims to ensure the beneficiary the possibility to get the execution as fast as possible, without fear of objections of the principal debtor in cases where the lender (beneficiary) believes that the period of performance of the obligation or other circumstances in case of occurrence of which issued the security, has come." Moreover, the increasing number of publications in the sphere of independent guarantee signifies continuous concern for practical problems. This issue raises different kinds of questions arising from serious reflections on this area.
In addition, the Institute of independent guarantee is one of the most successful measures of securing an obligation, because the information about the results of the independent safeguards are included in the unified register of information to prevent wrongful action on counterfeiting: the credit institution interacts with the principal to verify his solvency and reliability in the contract on issuance of a Bank guarantee in the manner similar to interaction with a potential borrower. Therefore, a thorough study of independent guarantee has both theoretical and practical significance for the development of entrepreneurship.
Problem Statement. The object of the research is the contractual legal relations between the market participants of goods, works and services in entrepreneur law, arising from the implementation of their freedom of contract. The subject of the research is the freedom of contract arising in contractual relations between the market participants of goods, works and services, which carry out business activities. The problem of research is the problem of implementation of independent guarantee in entrepreneurial activity. The goals and objectives of the study. The overall goal of this project is studying  independent guarantee in Russian entrepreneur law. To achieve this goal, the following tasks were set: 
To define the concept of independent guarantee, the content and its types.
To analyze the implementation of independent guarantee.
Delimitations of the Study. In the current study we will consider several problems of independent guarantee. The structure of the study consists of introduction, two chapters and conclusion. In the introduction we consider the problem of the research, justification of relevance, goals and objtectives of the topic. The first chapter is devoted to the general theoretical characteristics of independent guarantee; the concept and content of independent guarantee; its types and forms. The second chapter includes the implementation of independent guarantee among in entrepreneur, financial and banking sector. The conclusion includes the main results of the study. The bibliography includes a list of used monographs, scientific articles, normative legal acts and judicial practice.
Professional Significance. The institution of independent guarantee has been changed in 2015. Most of the studies have been written before the changes in the legislation. In current study we consider independent guarantee from the point of view of the theory. We will analyze the changes in legislation and compare them. In addition, we are exploring the practical application of the independent guarantee since 2015 by analyzing judicial practice. This approach will allow us to identify emerging problems in both spheres. Therefore, this work will be of great theoretical and practical importance.
Definitions of Key Terms. Independent guarantee - an obligation assumed by the commercial organization in accordance with the rule and conditions established by the agreement, which will secure the fulfillment of obligations assumed by the client towards the beneficiary, in exchange for which the client assumes an obligation: a) to pay the commercial organization the cost and other payables envisaged by the agreement; b) to reimburse the commercial organization in non-recourse mode the amount reimbursed to the beneficiary under the independent guarantee, including the amount reimbursed to the beneficiary against the independent guarantee’s conditions or for the violation of the obligations of commercial organization towards the beneficiary. Beneficiary - a person, for the benefit of which is issued the independent guarantee. Client - physical person, legal entity and/or other organizational formation. 
The literature review
Numerous attempts have been made to resolve the conflict between the content and the features of independent guarantee. It is important to know that an independent guarantee has a different name in foreign countries. This mean of securing an obligation is called a bank guarantee. However, the institute of independent guarantee in the Russia and the institute of bank guarantee in foreign countries have no differences.
As a part of study we had identified the following points: 1) the general features of independent guarantee (the definition and types of independent guarantee); 2) the implementation of independent guarantee in entrepreneur law. 
Let’s begin by looking at the definition and characteristic features of independent guarantee. In his work, Pavicevic dealt with the definition of the concept of the bank guarantee and the analysis of its importance in international trade. Furthermore, the subject of his analysis was the distinguishing of bank guarantees from other similar legal institutes and pointing out the advantages it has over other means of security. It is difficult to exaggerate how the extraordinary importance of Bertrans’s contribution offers a window into the types of independent guarantee. Bertrans deals with the classification of the types of bank guarantees, as well as the basic criteria for their classification. Accordingly, in his book, he gives an overview of the most important types of bank guarantees and points to the advantages it has over other collateral in international business. The punch line of Tarver’s approach is understood in terms of independent guarantee. From the point of view of Evan Tarver “independent guarantee is essentially a promissory provision on a loan indicating that if the borrower of the loan defaults on repayment, the bank will cover the amount of default”. To our mind, the definition reflects the essence of an independent guarantee. In other words, the bank guarantee reduces the risk for the company when it has no cash. 
Kamzin N. says that “bank guarantee is a document under which the bank agrees to pay a limited amount of money to a nominated party under the conditions specified therein”. Moreover, he means that the use of it as an instrument of payment is limited to international trade. Kamzin identifies several features of the implementation of this tool. Firstly, it ensures the interests of counterparties in various fields. Secondly, it does not distract from the circulation of money resources. Thirdly, the sides have an opportunity to receive from counterparties a trade credit secured by a bank guarantee acts. Fourthly, being "conditional payment obligation", the guarantee is cheaper product than a credit or factoring. 
It is interesting that the definition of independent guarantee is also absent in judicial practice. On the basis of this, it can be concluded that there is no uniform understanding of an independent guarantee among lawyers. In our view it will be good to introduce the concept of an independent guarantee that had been suggested by Tarver.
Much valuable works on this ensuring performance of obligations have been done to sound explanation of realizability problem in entrepreneur law. Many authors believe that the implementation of an independent guarantee is equal to the implementation of the letter of credit. For example, Cherewyk in his study compares two institutions of independent guarantee and letter of credit. A bank guarantee, like a letter of credit, guarantees a sum of money to a beneficiary. Unlike a letter of credit, the sum is only paid if the opposing party does not fulfill the stipulated obligations under the contract. This can be used to essentially insure a buyer or seller from loss or damage due to nonperformance by the other party in a contract. In addition, the Mugasha’s study is devoted to the comparison of the implementation of an independent guarantee and a letter of credit, to the problems of the application of an independent guarantee in enterpreneur law. Moreover, the Rego’s paper is of great importance in studying the implementation of an independent guarantee. In his research, he says about the analysis of the financial well-being of the company to assess the amount of the guarantee. The Bank carries out this procedure. This procedure is important for the Bank, because the Bank risks if the client does not fulfill its obligations. This amount is called a limit. The innovation idea advanced by Roeland I. V. F. Bertrams has immediate practical implications. This study is devoted to the implementation of Bank guarantees in international trade. The authors collected in their study the practice of applying Bank guarantees and laws. Bertrams uses case law, arbitral awards and legal writing from five European jurisdictions - the Netherlands, Germany, France, Belgium and England - to analyze how the practical application of Bank guarantees has established a model of law.
Studying the Russian judicial practice on implementation of an independent guarantee, we revealed the following problem - lack of the uniform law. In our opinion, this law will include provisions regulating an independent guarantee in various spheres of economic activity.
In view of the foregoing ideas I can claim that there is a large amount of scientific research of independent guarantee in Russian entrepreneur law. However, it is necessary to note that scientists have not reached consensus on the implementation of this tool. Judicial practice helps us to determine exactly the problems and their solution. 
In addition to these sources of literature and in order to provide a more effective analysis of the research subject, the paper used the laws regulating this area.
Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. There are various approaches to treating independent guarantee. It should be noted at the outset that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take a definite shape as the study is progressing.
In the definition of the concept of the bank guarantee, when analyzing its legal nature and in identifying its key features, analytical scientific methods and procedures of descriptive and explicative analysis will be used.
The general research perspective is qualitative – it will primarily focus on the data which will include Russian legal decisions, judgement overviews and expert commentaries. The legal decisions data such as situations when the side abuses their right will be analyzed with the help of a statistical method. The information collected will be systematized in order to form several full cases to be studied during the research.
Finally, methods of synthesis and generalization methods should enable us to summarize and link all relevant data and carry out the appropriate conclusions about the selected object of research.
Summary of the results anticipated
In the study of independent guarantee, we made the following conclusions. Firstly, the scientists give a lot of definitions. Scientists consider an independent guarantee in terms of entrepreneur law, finance law and banking law. We believe that the solution to this problem will be to create an independent guarantee. This concept will be enshrined in the law.
Secondly, we considered the peculiarities of the implementation of independent guarantee in entrepreneur activity. Scientists have different opinions on this issue. Some scientists note similar features in the implementation of independent guarantee and the implementation of letter of credit. Other lawyers consider the institution of independent guarantee as a financial instrument, which is used only in banking relations. 
We believe that it is necessary to create a single law that will regulate an independent guarantee. Also, this law clearly establish the areas in which the independent guarantee will be applied.
The findings are important for the development of entrepreneur law. In his research Gill said: “As business law becomes increasingly complex, it has become more important for the entrepreneur to have an appreciation of the legal issues which may affect their venture”. 
Conclusion
The final part of the proposal will be organized in terms of the specific research points: to report the concrete definitions of independent guarantee, to deal with implementation problems, to see if this study brings correlation between practical and theoretical aspects. Moreover, the results anticipated are intended to overcome the problems of theoretical and empirical groups. We are sure that the current study need further research in the future. 

