Introduction
Background. The governing bodies of a legal entity play a major role in the process of conducting business activities of a legal entity. It is they who commit acts that create, modify or terminate civil relations for a legal entity.
Bankruptcy is a procedure that is introduced in cases where a legal entity cannot fulfill its financial obligations to creditors. The governing bodies of a legal entity in the bankruptcy proceeding act on behalf of the legal entity. The abuse of powers by the debtor’s governing bodies in bankruptcy can be avoided by limiting their legal capacity. The main problem of this study is the indefinite legal status of the debtor in bankruptcy proceedings. 
Based on statistics from the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, the number of bankruptcy cases is growing annually. This fact suggests that it is necessary to determine the legal capacity of the legal entity in the process of bankruptcy, as well as the nature of the limitations on the powers of the debtor's governing bodies.
The issue under discussion was studied in scientific articles of such Russian scientists as Tsvetkov S.B., Kovylyaev A.I., Kurbatov A.Y.
Problem Statement. This study is aimed at analyzing the legal status of the debtor’s governing bodies in bankruptcy proceedings.
Based on the purpose of the study, the following tasks can be distinguished:
1. analysis of the capacity and legal capacity of legal entities;
2. research of the legal status of the governing bodies of a legal entity;
3. analysis and systematization of the applied restrictions on the powers of the debtor's governing bodies at the stages of specific procedures conducted in the framework of bankruptcy;
4. research of the responsibility of persons performing the functions of managing by the legal entity, members of the debtor's management body;
5. development of practical recommendations for improving bankruptcy legislation in the field of legal regulation of the activities of the governing bodies of a legal entity that is the debtor.
Professional Significance. Even though a lot of research by scientists is devoted to the investigated problem and there is a wide judicial practice, there is no consensus on the issue of limiting the powers of the debtor's governing bodies. First of all, this study will be of value in the field of generalizing the positions of scientists and the provisions of judicial practice. Moreover, a study in the field of limiting the powers of management bodies of legal entities will be useful to students of law schools, as well as to scientists who are considering this issue. A description of current experience will be useful from the point of view of the novelty of the analyzed legislative norms and law enforcement practice.
Delimitations of the Study. The research is focused on analyzing the legislation on the issue of restrictions on the powers of governing bodies of a legal entity in bankruptcy proceedings. The author considers the restrictions that are imposed at the stage of restoration of solvency of a legal entity and at the stage of liquidation of a legal entity. The research based on analysis of the dynamics of legal capacity of a legal entity at various stages of bankruptcy proceedings. At the same time, emphasis is placed on survey of doctrinal provisions on these issues, and discussions between scientists.
Definitions of Key Terms. Legal capacity of a legal entity is the ability of a legal entity to have civil rights corresponding to the objectives of the activity provided for in its constituent document and to bear responsibilities related to this activity (Article 49 of the Civil Code of Russia).
Insolvency (bankruptcy) means the inability of a debtor to meet in full the claims of creditors in relation to monetary obligations and/or to execute the duty of making mandatory payments, such inability having been recognized by a court of arbitration (Article 2 127-FZ On Insolvency).
Individual executive body means the sole executive body of a legal person or the head of a collective executive body and another person exercising activity under a federal law in the name of a legal person without powers or attorney.
Literature review
A large number of scientific articles and monographs are devoted to the issue of limiting the powers of the debtor's management bodies and determining the legal capacity of a legal entity in bankruptcy proceedings.
The article by Skvortsova addresses corporate governance issues and the system of governing bodies in commercial corporate organizations. The system of governing bodies includes the general meeting, the board of directors, the collegial executive body and the sole executive body. Of these governing bodies, only two are mandatory. The author suggests ways to improve legislation regarding the creation and activities of the supervisory board.
The author notes that the law nature of a legal entity presupposes the presence in the internal space of this legal actor a number of local legal relationships, in which the sole and collective elements of its organizational structure are involved. The author notice that the management bodies of a legal entity do not have their own legal personality; they operate on behalf of the legal entity. Sichevliuk argues that the formation of governing bodies of a business company creates the basis for effective internal corporate or administrative control and allows for efficient economic activity.
Tsvetkov’s research examined the legal status of creditors and the debtor in the face of restrictions on the capacity of the debtor. In order to achieve the goal, the author formulates the principle of permissibility of restrictions on subjective rights of participants in competitive relations based on an analysis of the current provisions of the bankruptcy law. Moreover, the author evaluates the goals of establishing restrictions in the framework of a combination of private and public interests. The concepts of justice, proportionality and proportionality are studied not only as general legal categories, but also as principles of bankruptcy law and as problems of law enforcement and interpretation.
Scientific article by A.I. Smirnova is dedicated to considering the features of the liability of legal entities for causing losses to a business company in bankruptcy. Smirnova A.I. notice that one of the most problematic issues at the institution of liability of participants in bankruptcy proceedings is determining the date that the debtor shows signs of bankruptcy and signs of insolvency. The exact definition of this date has an impact on important aspects of the institution of subsidiary liability, moreover, the identification of an early date plays an important role in establishing the possibility of subsidiary liability of controlling persons.
The urgent issue of the legal capacity of a legal entity is investigated in an article by Kirsanova. In this research, the author analyzes the concepts of legal personality and legal capacity of legal entities and compares these concepts with related ones applied to individuals. The author approves that in the process of bankruptcy the legal capacity of a legal entity is limited. Kirsanova notice that there is a restriction of legal capacity of a legal entity. In an insolvency proceeding, a legal entity ceases to function normally.
A comprehensive analysis of the legal nature of the restriction of authority of the debtor’s governing bodies contained in Kurbatov’s monograph. The author describes in detail various cases of applying restrictions to a legal entity, for example, the exercise of rights and fulfillment of duties through the actions of other persons appointed by the state, regardless of the will of the legal entity, the introduction of external management and the assignment of debtor’s affairs to an external manager and others. As a result, the author identifies three ways to limit the competence of the bodies of a legal entity, which include: Termination or suspension of the activities of the bodies of a legal entity without the possibility of restoring their authority, termination or suspension of the activities of the bodies of a legal entity with the possibility of restoring his authority, limiting the authority of the bodies of a legal entity.
Federal Law of October 26, 2002 N 127-FZ "On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)" is the third single Russian legislative act establishing the grounds for a court to declare a legal entity insolvent (bankrupt). This law establishes restrictions on the powers of the debtor's governing bodies at the stages of bankruptcy: supervision, financial recovery, external management, bankruptcy proceedings, amicable settlement.
The Legislative Guide provides a comprehensive outline of the main objectives and principles that are recommended for use in the national legislation of UN member countries. It is intended to assist in the reform of insolvency law throughout the world, including in the Russian Federation. The document is consultative in nature, it is not required for use. The presented recommendation is aimed at achieving a balance between the need for the fastest and most effective solution to the financial problems of the debtor. This guide contains information on how to properly conduct bankruptcy proceedings and what restrictions are best applied to the debtor's governing bodies.
The Russian Federation has a permanent representative in the IMF. The mentioned international organization is developing recommendations, including in the area of bankruptcy. The chapter “Debtor control” of the Orderly and Effective Insolvency Procedures contains information that there is a real need to introduce restrictions on the powers of the debtor's governing bodies. At the same time, the IMF claims that there is considerable debate about the extent to which rehabilitation proceedings should also result in the displacement of the debtor from the management of the enterprise once rehabilitation proceedings commence, and there is no uniformity regarding the way countries address this issue. However, the removal of the debtor's incumbent management in all cases could undermine the possibility of rehabilitation, since management will, in some cases, have the best understanding of the business's operation. Based on the foregoing, it is proposed that countries legislatively establish the scope of restrictions on the powers of the debtor’s governing bodies, subject to the possibility of consulting an external manager. The coordinated work of participants in the bankruptcy procedure can help to avoid the liquidation of a legal entity.
Methods
For research, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical, which allows you to assess the current state of Russian legislation governing the conditions and extent of restrictions of the debtor’s governing bodies in bankruptcy proceedings, as well as classify restrictions based on the nature of the procedures used. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and basis for applying restrictions, as well as to classify the forms and types of liability applicable to officials of a legal entity for violation of bankruptcy law. The comparative legal method allows you to qualitatively compare doctrinal provisions and legislative norms in the field of regulation of bankruptcy law in terms of limiting the legal capacity of a legal entity. The interpretation method is used to clarify the meaning of legal norms and doctrinal provisions.
Results anticipated
The issues raised in the study are ambiguous and controversial. Researchers in this field do not have a unified approach to the problem of determining the legal capacity of a legal entity, as well as the legal nature of restricting the legal capacity of governing bodies of a debtor. Based on the foregoing, one of the results of the study will be a generalization of the points of view of scientists on the issue of legal capacity of a legal entity and the development of the most suitable concept.  Moreover, an analysis of the responsibility of officials will be carried out, on the basis of which the result will be a conclusion on the proportionality and justification of liability, as well as the impact of insolvency on the elements of the legal personality and legal capacity of the debtor. It is proposed to develop practical recommendations on improving the legal mechanisms for holding accountable for offenses in the field of insolvency (bankruptcy) of persons who exercise the functions of the debtor's governing bodies.
Conclusion
Based on the analysis of the current legislation provisions, the principle of admissibility of subjective rights limiting is formulated. The justice and proportionality of the restriction of the rights of participants in competitive relations as an industry principle of the law on insolvency (bankruptcy) is not textually enshrined in a separate article of the Bankruptcy Law or any other law. The legal personality of the legal entity that is the debtor is limited when any bankruptcy procedure is introduced. However, these restrictions are present at different stages of insolvency to a greater or lesser extent, depending on the purpose that is pursued with the introduction of a bankruptcy procedure. Restriction of rights in bankruptcy proceedings is a limitation of legal capacity but does not affect the extent of its legal capacity in general.
To sum up, it should be emphasized that the project will be an attempt to develop the field of changing the civil legal status of a legal entity in bankruptcy in order to further study the limitations of the legal personality of a legal entity, since the obtained data contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
