Introduction
Background.Nowadays mercenaries are involved into the majority of military conflicts. Their actions have a serious negative impact on sovereignty, stability and security of states. Such exceptional social danger demands fundamental legal instruments of fight against this international crime, but careful examination of the legislation in this sphere reveals an evident lack of international interpretation. The basic international law is International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries (4 December 1989). According to its incompleteness and inconsistency it is ratified only by 43 states and quite a number of scholars question relevance and efficiency of the Convention.
The issue of legislation improvement is currently an active area of Hin-Yan’s researches. His works made an enormous contribution and became the basics of a wide range of contemporary studies. They are focused on bridging the blank spots in theoretical issues and legislative improvement.
At the same time some national legal systems have created a few problem-solving approaches, which contain some serious distinctions. It engenders new collaboration problems in the sphere of defining certain actions as crime and extradition.
Problem statement. The aim of the paper is to explore the approaches to the definition of mercenarism that various theorists have advocated. It has sought to resolve these issues and improve on the existing literature by proposing a specific definition that transforms accountability into the central determinant of mercenary status. To the extent that states are attracted by a definition that facilitates enforcement and improves on the analytical weaknesses of its predecessor, the accountability-based definition will strengthen international efforts to deter and punish mercenary violence. 
 There are objectives set to achieve the goals. At first, it is necessary to investigate the appearance of the mercenarism. The further stage is to indicate its legal nature. General description of criminal law is a next step. Finally it is essential to explore the approach of Russian legislator.
Professional significance. The development of mercenarism is challenging question nowadays. The phenomenon takes on new forms like PMC and militias. International regulation is inefficient and the majority of the governments do not imply specific counter-terms into their national legislations. Current studies put forward elaborating international control and cooperation mechanisms, meanwhile, there is a gap in doctrinal interpretation of national law in this field. In the framework of the project main interest and emphasis will concern with the existing national regulation systems. 
Delimitations of the Study. The concept of mercenarism is complicated and does not have a unified normative consolidation. It seems necessary to confine it and focus on its modern aspects and forms of expression. Firstly, international legal acts will be viewed. After that, I will explore national criminal laws of different legal systems. They will be investigated in the scope of mercenarism suppression and PMC’ activity regulation.
Definitions of the key terms. PMC - is a private company providing armed combat or security services.
Literature Review
Mercenarism has been known since ancient times, but it was carefully investigated only in the second half of the XX century. At that time the phenomenon’s criminal character received all the attention it deserved and it obtained due scientific support in the literature. Legal analysis of mercenarism rests on basic terms reflected in commentaries to the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation and courseware on international law. However, the problem’s investigation received joint and complementary efforts of different modern scholars. 
Employing the services offered by PMC is a deeply rooted practice, and in the past 50 years, in carrying out activities related to modern warfare, said participants play an increasingly significant part. According to Tropotei, "in the past their activity was equal to mercenarism without a shadow of doubt". The author mentions that they were first mentioned  in the 13th century BC, in Egypt, Pharaoh Ramses the 2nd used 11,000 "Medjays" (infantrymen and scouts recruited from the Nubian tribes) as well as mercenaries from other close-by regions (Syria, Canaan, Libya) in his military campaigns. The growth of modern mercenarism started after the end of the Cold War. Scoville provides several explanations for this conclusion:
Military budget reductions on both sides caused personnel layoffs and forced trained soldiers to look for private employment.
The end of the Cold War allowed conflicting parties to show less concern for the security so they dismantled some of their forces.
Mercenary organizations proliferated into legal private security firms.
Schaub and Kelty have argued that mercenary violence is also fundamentally a problem of accountability; the associated harms largely occur when private soldiers operate without the direction and control of a government. Unfortunately, the definition of "mercenary" that is employed in Protocol I and the U.N. Convention does not reflect this fact, as it includes several components that are irrelevant to the issue of accountability. As a result, the related, substantive treaty provisions are difficult to enforce and lack broad state support. 
As a result of these influences, mercenary activity has been observed in a large number of conflicts (especially in Africa). Therefore, General Assembly of the UN elaborated the International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries (4 December 1989). The study of Aidarbekov bears upon the international mechanisms of regulation. He divides all international acts about mercenaries into two groups: conventions and resolutions introduced by the United Nations organization and International Humanitarian Law. The narratives of these groups are poles apart, inasmuch as International Humanitarian Law does not define mercenarism as a crime. Consequently it is not punishable by international criminal law.  According to author, International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries (4 December 1989) contains obsolete ill-defined concepts. Thus the definition of “mercenary” provided in the first article is too loose and may be confused with the characteristics of terrorist or war criminals. The author claims, that a significant factor that undermines the notion of a strong antimercenary morn is that it overlooks the different manifestations and diverging objectives of mercenary activity. He tends to insist on the major role of international legislation in war on mercenarism.
Schreier and Caparini provide an alternative standpoint. They claim that the furtherance of national criminal legislations is primary important. This approach is the best matched to the problem under consideration, but authors support their view just by providing a few examples of national criminal legislations in the considered problem. Focusing too narrowly on the successful practice of regulating the activity of PMC they miss the point that these terms are very specific and other states will not be able to adopt them.
Most scholars share the opinion that PMC are the modern form of mercenarism. Cameron outlines benefits and drawbacks of their activity. Among advantages she mentions their operational flexibility and efficiency, responsibility, professionalism and unquestionable financial benefit. The main disadvantage is that governments are able to use these companies as power and control wheels in order to enforce their policy standing in the background. Moreover she maintains, that their activity denies governments’ legitimate violence monopoly.
The comprehensive study of PMC we can observe in Hin-Yan’s works. He provides a contemporary picture of the industry to illustrate the role PMC plays in modern armed conflicts and some of the problems that this raises. The author also highlights the factual allegations of impunity and the recidivist nature of the PMC industry which continues to fulfill key functions despite being embroiled in continuous controversy. Examining the question of accountability for PMC activities he reveals that these considerations “are biased towards focusing on fraud and fiscal waste, to the neglect of overcoming alleged impunity for violations human rights and international humanitarian law engendered by their activities”. This emphasis distinguishes the PMC as a fundamentally different type of corporation, whose activities raise particular and elevated risks that justify greater oversight and closer regulation because of the grave nature of positional harm it can cause.
Numerous attempts have been made to provide a solid grounding for creation of a unified system of legislation in this area. The recent studies are traced to accomplish the revision of the phenomenon and deepen the impact of legislation. The new cotemporary trend covers potentially important drive towards theoretical and practical thinking about the general field. 
Methodology
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study and give special emphasis to the analysis of the data. Mercenarism cannot usefully be analyzed as a monolithic phenomenon, and to imbue it with the features of stability and universality it to misunderstanding its fluid and adaptive nature. The current methodology used is to a certain extent an evolving one will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing. Formal-legal method is the basis for all the researches in the sphere of jurisprudence. To be more exact, it is a specialist approach within the broad field of international-legal phenomenon. There is a great variety of means to our disposal, which urges scholars to work out a unified framework. This approach combines functional and formal explanations of mercenarism. In order to gain a better understanding of the phenomenon’s origin historical method will be used. I will also apply the comparative method towards revealing deficiencies in international and local criminal acts. After making inferences from the comparisons what has to be understood is how accumulated individual state experience can improve international legislation. This approach also reveals that there is a certain mismatch between national regulations of PMC activity.  The method of analysis helps to investigate all doctrinal interpretations and scholars’ works about the prescribed subject.
Results anticipated
As stated at the outset, the study reported here will examine in detail the international legislation problems. It will examine the comparison of different regulation approaches and finally taking all the data collected into account suggest some specific terms for statutory regulation improvements. 
The results anticipated are intended to challenge current thinking about mercenarism and PMC, as the way of bringing only staff of PMC as private individuals to responsibility. Moreover, it might be expected that the investigation of foreign experience of PMC activity legalization provides evidence for the necessity of domestic legislation development.
Possible explanation for inefficiency of international legal regulation is that the governments are not able to come to the consensus in various international legal concepts. Reality is that this problem arises not only in the context of considered problem terminology, but in the context of the whole international law.
The findings of this study reveal that international terms are behind the times and the majority of national regulation systems have blank spots. As far as I am concerned, the only remedy is to establish General Assembly’s ad hoc work group. This group will address the problem of the International Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries (4 December 1989) development and national legal approximation in the sphere of PMC activity legalization.
Conclusion
A focus on local laws reveals an evident lack of international legal interpretation, and this leads to the fact that some doctrinal issues seem to be challenged and do not stand up to closer examination, especially within the framework suggested. Most of the authors have not managed to show the distinction between mercenaries and PMC. This tends to provoke misunderstanding in practice. Against this background, it would be useful that private military entities should adopt measures meant to clarify their position and the states using their services should adopt legislative initiatives to regulate such measures, allowing them to punish the potential actions of said companies, even though there are states, like the United States and the United Kingdom which are not signatories to the United Nations Mercenary Convention against the Recruitment, Use, Financing and Training of Mercenaries.



