Introduction
Background.  An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of legal status of a witness signifies the expanded role of this research in studying of criminal procedure law. The major points of reference for the analysis of legal status of a witness (as a phenomenon) is impacting by recent practice. This issue has an obvious appeal among scholars. While the debate over rights and responsibilities of a witness continues, there is a gap in our (theoretical) understanding of this concept. Scholars register the increased activity in this problem. 
Problem Statement. The general purpose of this project is will be to attempt to investigate of the witness institute in Russian criminal procedure and definite of the legal status of witness. The general question subsumes several related questions: to trace the genesis of this institute, systematize the rights and duties of a witness, and explore a witness statement as a kind of form of evidence, to analyze the distinctions of a minor witness`s legal status, to examine ways of witness safety provision during criminal proceedings, to draw an analogy between the witness protection in the Russian Federation and in the some countries in Europe and the United State. 
Delimitations of the Study. The general question this study will attempt to answer can be formulated as follows: what are the prospects for the existence and development of a witness institute. 
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project, the first objectives to meet will centre on the proposed provisions and practical recommendations on the procedural order of questioning the witness and ensuring the safety of the witness in criminal proceedings. It seems will possible to use them in practice by the employees of investigation bodies, the prosecutor's office and the court, as well as in the training process in the legal universities of the Russian Federation in the study of the components of legislation governing criminal justice. The conclusions and suggestions discussed can be an urgent importance for various scholars investigating improvement of the criminal procedural legislation, as well as participating in the further scientific development of this problem. 
 Definitions of Key Terms.  The legal interest is understood as “the person has such motives, goals, motivations, aspirations, connected with the results of the investigation, which have legally significant consequences for determining his procedural status” 
Literature Review
The Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, the Criminal Procedure Code, Federal Law No. 119-FZ of August 20, 2004 «On State Protection of Victims, Witnesses and Other Participants in Criminal Proceedings», as well as relevant legal acts of foreign countries, can be referred to the normative base of research.
In addition, the research uses an empirical basis, namely the statistical data of the Main Information and Analytical Center of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation, judicial decisions, op-ed articles data and the results of sociological surveys. 
Much amount of valuable work in the studying of the legal status of a witness as a participant in criminal proceedings has been done to provide a solid grounding for a broader theoretical basis to the research into witness safety. The punch line of Dobrovlyanina`s specific innovations of this question could was based on improvement of technical equipment, using to conduct investigative actions involving a witness. The contemporary trend has had significant consequences for development of witness concept. It is difficult to overestimate how much open prospects for further studies of witness institute. It is very impossible to deepen and push forward the impact of different scholarships. 
The actual history of this legal institute`s development dated from judiciary reform in 1864. The issue of witness` legal status inspired a lot of substantive debate among scientists not only in 1860s but in the current period as well. The approach to the legal status of witness has undergone a root and branch transformation in 1917. However, this problem yet carefully investigated, it needs to be answered on the basis of the practice analysis. Our knowledge is far from being comprehensive. 
The hypothesis is not devoid of some serious drawbacks. It seems to be prejudiced in favour of practical importance of the concept. Turchin`s approach does not appear to stand up to closer examination (especially within the framework suggested). Smyslov has not fully managed to explain a vital point. One of the possible ways to understand the concept of a witness is to undertermine traditional ideas about legal status of a witness. The second way is to displace the concern with theoretical issues by a preoccupation with theoretical problems. 
In the current period, this issue inspired a great deal intense debate among academic lawyers not only in Russia, but in the some countries in Europe and the United State as well. Konovalova`s and Sobol`s research challenged the status of a witness as disinterested in the outcome of a participant's investigation, and also questioned such a criterion of recognizing a person as a witness, as a "challenge to testify". 
Novikov S.A. also advocates this approach. In addition, the author raises the question: “Can the witness statement be obtained in the course of such investigative procedures as a visit and a search", as there are no mention of this in the articles of law regulating the order of these investigative procedures. This issue is indeed open and unclear legislative regulation, but the Novikov is inclined to subsume the witness statements obtained in the course of all investigative procedures to admit evidence in the criminal case. 
The term often used in Konovalova and Sobol’s recent article is a “legal interest”. This category in the opinion of the authors is significant in determining the procedural status of the party to the proceedings and contributes to clarifying the definition of their rights and obligations. Thus, the legal interest is understood as "the person has such motives, goals, motivations, aspirations, connected with the results of the investigation, which have legally significant consequences for determining his procedural status". Introduction of this concept is a way to differentiate the concepts of personal and legal interest to applicable to the status of a witness. 
Vetrila’s theory has had a great theoretical thinking about the purpose of attracting a witness for receiving the actual data needed to settlement of criminal case. 
Dobrovlianina's article has had important effect over studying the security issues of such participants in criminal proceedings, as a witness and a victim, problems that arise due to the lack of legislative regulation of the application of certain security measures.
Vetrova comes to the conclusion that due to certain psychological and physiological characteristics of minors, such investigative actions as interrogation and confrontation are exceptional, thus, the investigator should try to find other ways of establishing the truth on controversial circumstances.
Vologina E.V. describes the process of forming a witness's testimony, including 7 stages: perception and capture of information, preservation and processing of information, recall of information, reproduction and verbalization of testimony, processing of information received from the interrogated, recording testimony and repeated testimony. In general, the author reveals the process of interrogation of the witness, the details that should be given the most attention during interrogation, the psychology of the interrogator to obtain the most reliable data from the witness. 
In the chapter “Good practices for the protection of Witnesses in Criminal proceedings involving organized crime”, the author emphasizes the importance of the witness protection program in criminal proceedings. In addition, there is identified the main criteria that should be specified in the legislation for its proper implementation. The scholars emphasize criteria, such as the protection measures that can be taken, the conditions for their application and the criteria for allowing witnesses, the procedure that is necessary follow, the body responsible for the implementation of the program, the reason for the termination of the program, the rights and obligations of the parties, the confidentiality of program operations.
Krapchatov’s and Zhdanov’s article helps to compare the witness protection system in the Russian Federation and Romania, compare the organizational, legal, criminal and procedural measures that are applied in these countries, pay attention to the country's positive experience in protecting the rights of witnesses. The authors draw attention to the use in Romania of audio and video devices during the interrogation of a witness, which allows to limit his personal presence. 
The problem of expanding the use of these devices in the Russian Federation is affected by Novikov SA. in his study. In general, the protection measures are similar to the measures of protection applied in the Russian Federation.
Zaitsev comes to the conclusion that the anonymity of the witness's participation does not violate the principles of criminal proceedings, despite the fact that it limits the rights of the defense to access the witness's data, does not violate the balance of interests of the prosecution and defense.
Methods
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study. I aim to elaborate a new technique of study that relies on using a reference system. There are various methods to analyzing the legal status of a witness. It will serve the purposes of the present inquiry if majority of questionnaires are analyzed using several strategies.
Analysis method is the first used method. It assist to emphasize essential features of research subject. This method used takes us toward to analysis of the reasons for the problem of participation in the criminal proceedings of an anonymous witness. This method also helps to identify the special aspects of the legal status of the minor witness and the issues connected to his participation in criminal proceedings. It is necessary to analyze lawyer’s works about this topic, identify different points of view, and draw their own conclusions.
Comparative method serves to collate the implementation of witness protection in the Russian Federation and some countries in Europe and the United States. 
The historical method serves for retracing of the genesis of the witness institute in criminal proceedings. In addition, historical analysis raises the question of the legal norms governing the participation of a witness in a criminal process, the development of the concept of "witness" in criminal law. 
The statistical method helps to generalize the information obtained in the investigation judicial practice, as well as statistical data of legal structures on the issue under study. 
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained from with the methods mentioned.  The analyses of the data obtained from lawyer’s works about this topic will bring knowledge of the legal status of witness to the foreground. My arguments will be based on the statistical data of the Main Information and Analytical Center of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation, judicial decisions, op-ed articles data and the results of sociological surveys. To bridge the gap in the knowledge about a legal status of witness it is possible to focus on different problems that arise during the trial. The comparative method used will provide compare the procedural and institutional 	and criminally-remedial measures applied in different countries, to draw attention to the positive experience of these countries in the field of protection of rights witnesses. Based on this, we can consider the possibility of applying this positive experience in Russia. The reliability of carefully collected some lawyer`s positions is high enough to definite of the legal status of witness. This project will have some practical and theoretical implications. 
Conclusion
Accordingly, an increasing amount of publications in the sphere of legal status of witness in the criminal proceedings signify expanded role of this question in Jurisprudence. It had been found by proved that a great many of the problems of witness legal status analysis can most effectively be handled by systematizing the rights and duties of a witness. The major points covered by my project will lead to the following conclusion of revision of traditional ideas about legal status of a witness. In the final, I believe that the approach employed seems to have many unexpected practical benefits for similar researchers in the future. To bring the project to a close I can state that the project will be an attempt to develop new techniques using for witness security.
