Introduction
Background. The contract is a key concept in foreign economic activity and many studies have been devoted to inquiry the regulation of contractual relations. However, the institution of pre-contractual relations seems to be no less problematic, which was developed in the middle of the 19th century and is gradually being introduced into the legislation of different countries. In the Russian Federation, pre-contractual relations are a relatively new institution, since significant amendments to the legislation have been made very recently. Given the development of commercial turnover, transactions with foreign counterparties become a frequent occurrence, and given the scale of the agreement, the counterparty must be sure of the success and reliability of the result. Thus, the relevance of this study lies in the need for normative consolidation of pre-contractual liability as a legal institution in acts of an international nature due to the fact that contractual relations complicated by a foreign element serves a great purpose in international commercial turnover.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: pre-contractual relations in this field is connected with the legal order of more than one country, from which problems of law enforcement and determination of applicable law to pre-contractual relations arise.
The aim of this research is to determine different approaches to definable law in relations related to the conclusion of an agreement between the parties, depending on the legal nature of the respective relations.
Based on the goal, the following tasks were identified:
1. To analyze the development of the institution of pre-contractual relations in different countries;
2. To determine the particular legal nature of pre-contractual liability;
3. To explore pre-contractual relations in foreign economic activity;
4. To define approaches to applicable law depending on the characteristics of pre-contractual relations;
5. To research issues related to determining the liability of the guilty party in pre-contractual relations;
6. To compare the legal regulation of pre-contractual relations in countries belonging to different legal families;
7. To examine judicial practice on problematic aspects of pre-contractual liability.
Delimitations of study. The research project is primarily focused on the analysis of judicial practice in the field of pre-contractual liability which will determine the general principles of sanction imposition. This is determined by the fact that in different countries there are different approaches to the determination of applicable law. In particular, such approaches are different not only in the United States and the European Union, but also within Europe itself. Moreover, the delimitation of the study is the absence of a unified approach to this question, while there were endeavors to harmonize regulations.
Professional Significance. This study will serve as the basis for further work in the field of private international law on issues of pre-contractual liability. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of existing work on this topic, as well as reflects trends in law enforcement practice. In addition, the author highlighted features of a legal nature that must be taken into account when entering into negotiations with a view to concluding a foreign economic contract, and also analyzed the possibility of implementing international private law in the national legislation of the Russian Federation.
Literature Review
One of the tasks of this research was to the development of the institution of pre-contractual relations in different countries. Kottenhagen R.J.P. in his work analyzes the problems of pre-contractual liability from the point of view of two legal families: through common law countries and civil law countries. In the course of the study Kottenhagen states that in common law family countries, pre-contractual liability is based on the general theory of contract law, while in civil law family countries it is possible to provide for the obligation to negotiate in good faith. The author emphasizes that the Netherlands was the most successful of all the countries examined in this regard, since they have the opportunity for the court to force contractors to resume negotiations if one of the parties dishonestly leaves them, and the party has the right to recover positive losses. It can be stated that the most favorable for pre-contractual relations is the civil law family, since the principle of good faith has a very important role in negotiating, since on this basis it is possible to determine the liability of a party that has violated pre-contractual obligations. 
Pre-contractual liability may be of a different nature. And in order for the conflict resolution to be as equitable as possible, the parties must initially determine for themselves the form of the pre-contractual agreement that they conclude before entering directly into the pre-contractual relations. This aspect of the question was studied in the work Precontractual liability and preliminary agreements by Schwartz A. and Scott R. In this article, the authors aim to characterize the nature of pre-contractual liability, as well as analyze the substantive rules that govern the legal regulation of such responsibility. The main problem raised by the researchers in the study is the ambiguity of the opinions of the courts regarding compensation for losses to the party whose counterparty dishonestly violates the terms of the preliminary agreement, if such exists in writing. In conclusion Schwartz and Scott are finding that there are several approaches regarding the nature of pre-contractual relations: contractual liability or quasi-contractual, tort liability. Factors affecting the nature of pre-contractual liability are the stage of negotiations, the presence or absence of a pre-contractual agreement, the nature of the violations that occurred, close contacts in the process of concluding the main contract, evidence of the intention of the parties to conclude the contract. The application of the law governing contractual relations in terms of pre-contractual liability is not separated from the regulation of the contract itself.
Stepanishcheva A. also believes that the application of the law governing contractual relations in terms of pre-contractual liability, also does not separate from the regulation of the contract. The author points out that there are several approaches regarding the nature of pre-contractual relations: contractual liability or quasi-contractual, tort liability. Another important consideration is that there are a lot of factors affecting the nature of pre-contractual liability, which are the stage of negotiations, the presence or absence of a pre-contractual agreement, the nature of the violations that occurred, close contacts in the process of concluding the main contract, evidence of the parties' intention to conclude the contract.
Segreev suggest implementing the institution of pre-contractual liability into the Civil Code of Russia. The principle of freedom of contract is limited by the principle of good faith, enshrined in Art. 10 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, which is the reasonable and conscientious actions of participants in civil turnover. In addition to this, entering into pre-contractual relations also requires counterparties to observe the principle of good faith, and for the opposite imposes liability on it. Since there are no rules in Russian legislation directly regulating pre-contractual liability, it is advisable to apply Articles 10 and 1064 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, which establish the principle of good faith and the concept of general tort. In order to recover losses from an unscrupulous counterparty, the affected party must prove their compliance with the category of “negative contractual interest”, which can be interpreted both as real damage and as lost profit. Given the absence of specific rules on pre-contractual liability, it seems appropriate to enshrine in the Civil Code certain chapters regulating the terms of the contract, as well as some aspects of its conclusion, which should reflect the concept of liability for unfair negotiation. 
International private law has several sources of law, one of which is an international custom. Kurbanov in his study emphasizes the role of custom in international private law, especially in international economic activity. The definition of “legal norm” exists not only as an integral part of the national legal system, but also as legal norms developed at the international level. The position of custom in the hierarchy of the system of Russian law is not clearly defined. Also, there are inconsistencies between INCOTERMS  and the provisions of Russian law are due to the fact that there are no specific conditions for particular cases of conclusion of contracts in both acts. Berger K. shares a similar point of view with the researchers mentioned above. He states that principles and restatements may be used by national and supranational law makers (legislators and courts), referred to by the parties to an agreement, and built into legal education. This is a process which is already beginning to occur.
Another complicated question in this field is the commitment time. It is important for both parties to know the time they entered into a contractual relationship. According to Demkina A., the basis for the occurrence of the obligation is certain actions of the parties in the negotiations, which should be sufficiently defined and based on which the will of the parties appears. The ultimate goal of the pre-contractual obligation is to reach an agreement on the conclusion of the contract and its direct conclusion. The author states that conditionally there are three stages of concluding a pre-contractual contract are expected: clarification of the counterparty’s interest, agreement on the terms of the contract, direct conclusion of the contract based on the results of the negotiation process. This study is of practical interest, since the identification of the stages of concluding a contract has a consequence in the form of a difference in responsibility at different stages of breaking the relationship. Accordingly, the closer the counterparties are to the last stage, namely the conclusion of the contract, the greater expenses they incur, and therefore the recoverable losses from the unscrupulous side will be higher.
In his study, Öztürk aims to critically examine European private international law regarding the doctrine of culpa in contrahendo. This doctrine is understood differently in different countries, namely, the basic principles differ due to the difference in the rule of law, and, consequently, the law enforcement practice in these countries is also heterogeneous. Culpa in contrahendo is presented as a fiduciary obligation arising from a breach of proximity between counterparties, and the rules of contract law are applied to them in the absence of special rules. European law defines the legal nature of culpa in contrahendo as non-contractual, nevertheless considers it appropriate to apply the law applicable to the contract in the matter of applicable law.
One of the main features of pre-contractual liability is preliminary agreement. In case of its absence the court needs to decide on the basis of a direct expression of the will of the parties or flow from the circumstances of the case, while he should not prejudice the rights of third parties. 
Another controversial concept in international private law is transnational norms and their nature. Transnational norms help fill in the gaps in existing international treaties, and also help to correlate the norms of national law with the situation in international commercial turnover. The business community itself is beginning to tend to the fact that the normatively fixed provisions that relate to contractual relations do not so much reveal the essence of these relations, and also do not comply with current law enforcement practice. 
Speaking about the problems that arise when the legislator uses incorrect expressions in legislative act, we can highlight the work of Chumakov A. as for control over non-disclosure of information about the counterparty, the provisions of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation will not be enough if the parties do not additionally draw up an agreement on the procedure for negotiating or an agreement on confidentiality of information. The legislator needs to clearly articulate possible options for action by the parties, if the law provides an open list of possible rights and obligations of the parties, as well as the specification of compensation for compensation to the party affected by unfair negotiations. 
Methods
For examination of pre-contractual liability, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to access the current state of Russian legislation dealing with legal cases regarding the breach of precontractual obligations, as well as to predict it further development within the framework of Russian law, especially its application in this area the functional method will be used to determine grounds and the purpose of the legislation regulating preliminary agreements and pre-contractual liability also this message will allow us to characterize the main aspects of liability for bad-faith negotiation.
The competitive legal me as it helps to make a qualitative expression is black comparison the comparative legal method helps to make a quality comparison of similar institutions of legal regulations people in countries belong to different legal families and to identify the most favourable condition for the existence of the institution of pre-contractual liability. Finally, the historical method was used in order to trace the development of the doctrine “culpa in contrahendo” through the prism of the development and also to identify their ideas of scholars about the current situation of this institution.
Results Anticipated
Expected results of the study:
1. The legal nature of pre-contractual obligations is determined by such factors as the method of concluding the contract, the nature of the negotiations between the parties, the stage of negotiations and the existence of a pre-contractual agreement between the parties.
2. Pre-contractual liability can be of a diverse nature, both contractual or quasi-contractual, and tort, which also follows from the above factors.
3. Regarding the choice of law, three approaches can be distinguished:
A) applying to pre-contractual relations the right that the parties have chosen to apply to the contract;
 B) applying the norms of national legislation of one of the countries that apply in the absence of the chosen right;
C) applying collision bindings.
Conclusion
The results of the study indicate that the questions posed for study are still debatable. The institution of pre-contractual liability in Russia is not as developed as in common law countries, nevertheless, by changing the law, the problem of a double understanding of the rules of law governing the conclusion of a preliminary agreement can be solved, as well as the problem of the occurrence of pre-contractual obligations of the parties to the contract. Despite the fact that there are a large number of approaches to the issue of pre-contractual liability, the judicial practice is very heterogeneous both within one country and internationally. Nevertheless, countries need to work towards the harmonization of law in the field of pre-contractual relations, as this will have a significant effect on business turnover, and, as a result, on the resolution of disputes related to violation of pre-contractual obligations.
