Introduction
Background. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of violent criminality signifies the undeniable concern for its continuous growth. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. The major problems in the criminality studying are found in causes and conditions of violent crimes. These issues are of substantial significance for law enforcement officials, criminologists, and psychiatrists as there are various factors that determine criminal aggression including mental and behavioural disorders. No matter how many renowned scholars investigated the nature of psychic anomalies, no one has made a careful inquiry into initial syndromes of mental illnesses which has resulted in low crime detection rate.  Furthermore, numerous blank spots in this field are to be found within the criminal proceedings aspect as the investigators in charge have limited scientific knowledge of psychic anomalies, and hence, face difficulties in carrying out procedural actions against anomalous perpetrators. 
Problem Statement. The present investigation covers the proposed research study that will examine in some depth criminogenic aspects of psychic anomalies. The overall goal of this project is to analyze psychic anomalies as a criminogenic factor that determines aggression while committing a violent criminal act.
In conformity with the goal set the initial research questions can be stated as follows:   
1.) How does psychic norm differ from psychic pathology?
2.) What are criminal aggression factors?
3.) What are the lines of approach to the problem of a criminal charge arraignment to mentally abnormal perpetrators?
4.) What measures must be taken to ensure the most effective offender rehabilitation?
Delimitations of the Study. It is no part of my intentions to touch upon the issues concerning psychic anomalies in the structure of all crime types, for there are several recent and comprehensive reviews of the lucrative, political, ideological, and religious offences. Therefore, there is a number of structural limitations to be attributed to the analyzed crimes. Moreover, the constraints in question derive from the process of data gathered as we intend to interview a narrow circle of criminal investigators who specialize in violent crimes. 
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first tasks to achieve will consist in providing a description of the psychic norm and pathology in order to differentiate these notions, analyzing the key factors of criminal aggression and developing criteria for the definition and evaluation of the affective state. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile to explore the approaches to the problem of individuals’ with psychic anomalies criminal liability and further resocialization that various theorists have advocated. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to interview criminal investigators and legal experts to identify a set of means employed in communication with mentally ill offenders. 
The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for various scholars, students of law faculties, psychologists, and psychiatrists who investigate the variability of psychic anomalies because we will make a link with the existing knowledge and attempt to develop new approach to detection of people with psychic disorder. Since the issue studied is of utmost social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in violent criminality and law enforcement activities including jurists, police officers, homicide detectives, and forensic scientists. 
Literature Review
For a long time the research on violence has been linked to qualitative characteristics of violent crimes and comprised essentially the problem of rampant increase in sexual, juvenile, and female crimes committed with extreme brutality. Recent investigations rise to the critical literature on psychic anomalies as they could have criminogenic effect on an individual and serve as stimulus for criminal aggression realization. 
A considerable amount of valuable work on violent criminality has been done to link together the study of psychic anomalies and criminal aggression. Numerous attempts are being made to decrease the discrepancy between theory and reality thus providing a firm theoretical basis to the research into early detection of mental illnesses and violent crimes prevention. 
Hoffer’s research critically reviewed various behavioural abnormalities in the light of the data collected by chief theorists and intellectuals of that time including Hook S. and Kahn M. The survey of the literature pertaining to the professor’s review gives the clue to understanding the nature, causes, and syndromes of such mental illnesses as neuroses, narcolepsy, hypersomnia, and schizophrenia. He also put forward the following clinical features that comprise prominent criteria for schizophrenia diagnosis: unmistakable change of personality, autism, disturbance of thinking and perception, profound emotional disturbance, and behavioural anomalies.
It is necessary to acknowledge how much has been done by Glenn D. Walters since his studies add extra dimension to in-depth the knowledge on the perpetrators with mental disorders. Among the personality traits inherent to a mentally ill offender the most characteristic are impulsivity, rigidity, self-absorption, pathological lying, emotional lability, conformity, and dereism proneness.
Baskin-Sommers illustrates certain social disadaptation factors of the individuals with psychic anomalies: intellectual immaturity, self-assertive ambition, antisocial aggression, doing unskilled job, and hence, financial problems. 
Speer’s investigations facilitate understanding the influential role of psychopathic factors on the criminal behaviour. The author considers the factors of excessive drinking, drug abuse, falling into bad associations, psychogenia, social withdrawal, craniocerebral injuries, somatic diseases, and seldom doctor visiting.
Numerous attempts have been made by Waldorp to give a sound explanation of the difference between affective delict and psychic pathology. Following on from the results of his clinical observations, he managed to elaborate the criteria for such differentiation and provide the basis for predicting what might occur during the procedural analysis of human psycho-physiological processes. Waldorp’s theory has had fundamental consequences for criminal psychology as the criteria proposed will help to solve the problems that recur periodically within the framework of the complex forensic psychiatric expert examination. In professor’s studies much attention is given to the borderline psychogenic state issue.
Having studied monographs and articles by Russian and foreign legal scholars, we can outline that the punch line of Yuriy M. Antonyan approach is based on social programmes of violence prevention aimed at providing financial and medical assistance to the regions with high crime rate. Apart from that, the professor emphasizes on the necessity of additional social programmes implementation that will help to reduce certain crime forms (for instance, drug and solvent abuse, systematic inflictions of beating) by preventing domestic violence. The research ably criticized the premises of the death penalty abolition. The professor considers it expedient to amend the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation and inflict capital punishment on dangerous special criminals. 
It is impossible to exaggerate the extraordinary importance of Antonyan’s contribution since his studies offer a window into the complex nature of psychic anomalies within the context of violent criminality.
Levenson’s potentially significant ideas are best understood in terms of juvenile delinquency prevention as he stresses that better parenting needs to be given priority in contemporary society in order to exclude the possibility of sexual violence and sexual deviance in adulthood. Professor’s scholarly research has an enormous drive towards studying accentuations of adolescent personality traits.
The traditional approach to the study of a mental illness has undergone a profound shift from the aspect of mental health treatment. In this context we cannot but mention the approach based on applying rehabilitative measures to patients.
However, some fields of the research on psychic anomalies have not received all the attention they deserve so far. For instance, the lack of consensus on the psychopathic syndromes criteria causes numerous problems in practice. Furthermore, the question concerning differentiation between psychopathic deviations and emotional behaviour of mentally healthy people needs to be further analyzed in terms of irresistible impulse. The concern for syndrome transformation remains still questionable from the point of view of syndrome detection during clinical observation. It is worth noting that sociocultural and ethic factors have an impact on certain mental disorders psychopathology. Consequently, the implication is that our understanding of psychic anomalies nature is not comprehensive yet.
Methods
In this section I aim to explain the methods used in carrying out the study and thus pinpoint the key behavioural features of individuals with psychic anomalies. There is an indefinite multiplicity of ways that were adopted by a wide range of scholars to treat the above-mentioned phenomenon. For example, Warren used the scientific method to combine the disciplines of biochemistry and psychiatry in his research. The experimental method adopted by Hoffer helped to detect overlap and agreement between groups of facts and fields of study which have not before been effectively combined and to bring these groups into experimental contact.
I will try to capitalize on this advantage and provide the following complex of methods to limit the research: historical method, comparative and formal legal methods, psychological methods, expert evaluation method, analytics, and systematics. The use of the interview method will aid in investigation of the key law enforcement problems concerning communication with perpetrators who are mentally abnormal. 
The methodology applied helps to illuminate the aspect of psychic anomalies variety and enables predictions on possible resocialization of psychopathic criminals. 
In order to consider psychic anomalies in terms of the descriptive survey the research design should include clinical observations analysis and interviewing crime investigators of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation. It is likely that it will serve the purposes of the present inquiry if the data obtained is analyzed using several strategies. Dictation equipment will be used to record the speech of the criminal investigator and apply audio data in further survey.
Secondary types of data sources will also be employed in the study. Administrative websites and official statistical databases of Russian Federal Security Service and Federal Penal Enforcement Service will aid to access statistics on violent crimes committed during the particular period of time. Furthermore, these instruments will serve to retrieve current information on psychiatric examinations conducted. To ensure accurate results, both data sets will be scrutinized and checked for consistency. By correlating the data obtained, we will be able to reveal the behavioural trends of violent perpetrators.
These data collection instruments are aimed at eliciting archival data, criminal files and specialists’ personal beliefs regarding mental treatment, communication with abnormal criminals, and violent crime prevention.
What remains to be done alongside the scope of psychic anomalies criminogenity, is to contrive relevant quantifications of violent crimes and forensic psychiatric expert examinations in the Perm region.
Results Anticipated
In the part to follow the presentation of the results will use an appropriate organizational pattern in terms of the specific research questions posed in part I: it first will report on the data compiled and clinical observations studied, it then will examine Russian and foreign statistics on violent criminality, and finally, propose a theory of mental disorders diagnosis with sufficient proofs adduced. Moreover, the findings of the study will help criminal investigators to solve procedural matters concerning communication and behaviour pattern with mentally ill offenders. The material to be obtained will serve to bring the violent criminality prevention issue to the foreground and reveal correlation between psychic anomalies and criminal behavior motivation. 
The facts furnished will confirm the validity of my ideas as they can be exemplified by statistical and empirical analysis of duly subordinated data. Devices used for the analysis of the data range from simple descriptive measures to complex analytic schemes.
The interim results point to the law psychic anomalies detection rate as people with behavioural abnormalities resist treatment during early stages of illness. These estimates show agreement with psychiatrists’ clinical observations.
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present investigation enable me to conclude that the crimes committed by psychically abnormal perpetrators are highly latent due to the lack of proper treatment of mental illnesses and disorders.
It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of psychic anomalies nature as forensic psychiatrists need more precise criteria for diagnosis of mental disorders. 
My efforts might have largely practical implications for law and psychology students, practicing psychologists and psychiatrists, criminologists, legal experts, and law enforcement officials. 
The dataset and findings furnished rest on skill and care, for they have been obtained during the interviewing of the criminal investigator and the psychiatrist who conducts complex psychological examitation. 
I believe that the methods employed could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of behavioural abnormalities studying. Moreover, they serve to decide on the overall approach to the research by providing various tools for analyzing and summarizing. Since the project focuses mainly on clinical observation and relevant literature review, it will follow correlational, descriptive, and evaluative research designs built on qualitative methods.
To sum up, I can state that the project will be an attempt to develop fertile area for further analyzing the variety of psychic anomalies as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic. 
