Introduction
Background. Currently the system of the Russian civil legislation is undergoing significant changes. This branch of law is more dynamic, because the interaction between subjects of civil relations is directly linked with the development of the world economy and the country’s economy. To ensure compliance with contemporary trends in economic and commercial there has been embarked on a course of reform the Russian civil legislation by 2008. However, despite the numerous amendments in the Russian Civil Code one of the most crucial issues in the Russian civil law, particularly in contract law is the question on introduction the presumption of optionality rules of law in contract law. 
The relevance of this topic is determined by the presence of cases in judicial practice where the principles of freedom of contract and the dispositive have been infringed by its illegitimate and unjustified restrictions which in turn may lead to ineffectiveness and substandard work of the system of civil legislation and the legal system in Russia on the whole. In our opinion, the analysis of general features of rules of law in contract field enables to detect some obstacles which constrain the creation of an effective mechanism for contractual regulation. 
Problem Statement. Nowadays there are contradictions between these fields. According to scientific positions the presumption of optionality should be introduced because it is indirectly prescribed into the Code. Anyway, the judicial practice admitting the principle of the freedom of contract negate the presumption of optionality which in our view follows directly from the general provisions of the Russian Civil Code. So describing this problem we consider it is necessary to emphasize its some aspects:
1. Historical aspect which is defined by historical development and formation of the Russian contract law; and
2. So-called “practical” which is a consequence of the previous one. It is a wrong perception of some provisions of the Code. For instance, Bevzenko defines this issue approximately as “the imperative is in the minds”.
Professional Significance. This work is focused on the exploration and consideration the Russian contract law. In our view, it is useful to analyze the common features of contract law to understand more concrete issues latter, especially the significant question of introducing the presumption of optionality. It seems to us expedient to pay attention the fact that this work represents some proposals to improve the existing the Russian contract law (which we would call “the efforts”). 
Dilimitations of the Study. The aim and assignments of this research are to consider and explore the general characteristics of rules of contract law by analysis the Russian Civil Code, judicial practice under the questions of contractual regulation and the works of civil lawyers to make a conclusion whether its introduction is meaningful and actually required. We are convinced that the issue concerning the advisability of introducing the presumption of optionality is vital in theoretical and practical areas in contract law. Our research comprises both the theoretical and practical learning of contract and state regulations. 
Literature Review	
In order to consider the given topic (or any phenomenon in the legal field) it is necessary to take the historical aspect of it into account. According to the history of contract law it derives from the Roman law (here we should descry that this aspect includes the common history of this branch of private law without reference to the particular country). Professor Garro argues that the contemporary civil legislations of European countries are following for the Roman law’s traditions which differentiate rules of law on imperative (mandatory) and suppletive (or permissive) laws. In his view, contract law is characterized by preference permissive rules of contract law under the first one. It means that if there is no the direct prohibition the rules of law are presumed as permissive which allow the possibility to choose. However, contract law comprises legal government and the regulation of contract by parties. So the state regulation may restrict the civil rights only to the extent, to which it shall be necessary for the purposes of protecting the foundations of the constitutional system, morality, the health, the rights and the lawful interests of the other persons, of providing for the defense of the country and for the state security. Consequently, the interaction between private and state mechanisms has to the balance and harmony of their interests. In addition, we are convinced that it is important to pay attention on the provisions of the Articles of general part of the Code’s structure  which prescribe the different principles (rationality, morality; these principles are attitude to an evaluative category) and the customs (for instance, the customs of the business turnover). All of them (we mean the above instruments) are judicially applied and enable to regulate contract relationships between the subjects more efficiently. In our view, it is vital to remember that the term “contract” correlates with the next principles, these are: autonomy of the will and freedom of contract. In our opinion the given words are identified the contractual regulation as the regulation where parties are free to opt for the other party, the type of contract, propose and coordinate the conditions under the contract and so on. 
We believe that economic analysis of law provides more effectively and rationally solution of various issues in law, including in contract law. From the economic theory of restricted rationality of economic agents the subjects of law are limited rational. Taking this fact into account we understand that laws cannot be ideal (they are not able to prescribe all variations and alternative of potential conduct for the subjects. The founders of this theory in economics are Professor Becker, Professor Cooter and Professor Ulen. They were first who proved that a restricted rationality exists. We admit that economic theory enables to solve the majority of issues that is why to make the lawyers should learn the basis of economics. 
Professor Hesselink believe that it is vital to seek out the balance between state government and regulation by parties. As we said before, in general, parties are free if they act in accordance the letter of law. Additionally, the author attaches importance to the fact that every party under the contract is attaining to maximize the level of their welfare. Furthermore, the scientist focuses on the characteristics of non-mandatory rules of law and comparative analysis between different countries. So in the French law there is an indirect presumption of optionality, as for the distinction between non-mandatory (or dispositive) and mandatory (imperative) laws, it can be characterized under the level of force: minor force and major accordingly. The mandatory rules of law are established by direct prohibitions that is why the optionality (or the dispositive) rules of contract law is presumed. In our view, it is useful to notice that the existing terms to denote imperative and dispositive rules of law derives from the French law. 
In this paper we refer to the works by Professor Karapetov and Professor Bevzenko which are devoted to the questions on the efficient government in contract law. So their collaboration is focused on the problem of irrational limitation of the main principles in this area of civil law. The scientists are proponents of the economic theory and now continuing this topic. As the evidence of necessity of economic analysis researchers think that the system of the country’s legislation can be separated on ex ante monitor and ex post monitor like in the mechanism of government of contractual relationships. According to the first type of control economic analysis allows to predict some models of behaviour, so it may assist to create the system of law to cooperate with the contemporary tendencies. For instance, there is an impugnable presumption of optionality in the European country which provides a relatively proper government of relations between the subjects of civil law. Anyway, the Russian Civil Code does not prescribe the provisions on this presumption. Besides, the authors notice that there is an opposite presumption in the Russian civil legislation. One of the examples of the problem solution is presented by Professor Bevzenko. He identifies the presumption approximately as “the imperative is in the minds” and proposes the next solutions of issues. The first way is so-called “fight with the imperative by prescription of the presumption of optionality” and the second one is to improve ex post control (judicial practice). In our opinion the first way may affect a range of problems because, in general, it represents a set of the rigid presumption of optionality and leads to an opposite result. The second approach to this issue proposed by Professor Bevzenko seems to us more feasible but now it is impossible in Russia. 
Considering the common characteristics it seems rational to us to analyze one of the significant exception for limitation of the principles in contract law. At the beginning we have already mention about the week party, let we see this restriction more detailed. This one is closely linked with consumer contract (or a contract with consumer’s participation). The exploration of this type of contract is necessary to depict the majority of problems in the field. Foremost, we should consider the week party which usually calls a consumer. There are also issues of understanding who consumers are. In the article “The Consumer Rights Act: consolidating UK consumer protection laws” the term “consumer” is defined as an individual acted in noncommercial aims, these are in the framework of personal and domestic purposes. This definition seems to us more justified because the term “individual” comprises not only the citizens of the concrete country but people on the whole. To provide the protection of consumer’s rights the provisions (which count the presence of the conditions to admit contract or some conditions invalid) are established in the federal law “On consumer’s rights”. The law prescribes the next circumstances, these are: 1) infringed consumer’s legitimate rights; 2) imposed to purchase necessary goods (work, service) together with other goods (work, service) which do not need for consumers; and 3) infringed the rule that a supplier (an executer) is not entitled to perform additional work, service without the consumer’s agreement. Other limitations of the crucial principles in contract law are not justified but in spite of the direct provisions (which should be treated as an exhaustive list) there are numerous cases where create new restrictions in judicial practice. In our opinion, this issue is connected to the issue of introducing the presumption of optionality (dispositive). If this presumption is prescribed, the problems of illegal limitations of rights and legal interests will be solved.  
Methods
In our paper the general scientific methods and special (legal) techniques are employed. Among the first approaches can be defined the inductive and deductive methods, method of analysis. In order to consider the topic of our research it seems to us justified to use the deductive approach (characterized as from the particular features to the general) to analyze the common structure of contract law. The second method (which defined as opposite to previous) is used to identify the particular issues which prevent the creation of efficient mechanism of government. As for the last one we are totally convinced that this approach is necessary to explore general and concrete signs to make a conclusion whether the existing regulation is effective or not. Besides, the special methods are also applied in the research, these are: the method of historical analysis, formal and legal method (the translation is taken from the multitran) and comparative approaches. The historical analysis, in our opinion, assists to depict the evolution of developing of the contract law’s system by chronological consideration the existing structure and institutions. This approach allows seeking out the disadvantages in the legal system and sometimes may proposes the ways of problem solution. The next method is also necessary because it gives the possibility to explore the legal documents in accordance with various aspects, for instance some issues linked with understanding rules of contract law can be solved by this approach. For example, it can solve the problem of ambiguity of these rules of law. Considering the legal field regardless the concrete sphere of regulation it is useful to carry out a comparative analysis between two or more countries to define the necessary vector of development. Consequently, the complex of these approaches is significant to write the adequate research.
Results Anticipated
We strongly believe that at the end of our work the goal and assignments which are determined will be accomplished. This paper proposes to pay an essential attention on the general characteristics of rules of contract law because it is vital to solve the particular issues. In this paper we explore the possibility of introducing the presumption of the dispositive and its prescription is feasible in the Russian Civil Code. This necessity is caused by the presence of illegal and inexpedient limitations of the main principles in the civil legislation in the Russian Federation. We should notice that these tendencies are getting frequent and they are massive. 
Conclusion
In the research process the assignments are achieved as far as possible. In the results of exploring and considering the general characteristics we deduce that one of the most issues in the Russian contract law is the presence so-called the presumption of the imperative. This paper aims to give some adequate ways to solve the problems. 





