INTRODUCTION
In today's world sport is one of the most popular human activities. Every day you can hear from the news that any competition in any sport is being held at the moment. It is no secret that most of the attention of sports fans is paid to football. Football is by far the most popular sport. It is obvious that most football fans prefer to watch a really competitive and spectacular championship, whose players are world-class stars. However, in order for a club to gather all the world's superstars in its line-up it is necessary to transfer (buy) players and world football stars will not be cheap. Moreover, high-class players add to the team competitiveness and spectacle through which the popularity of the club around the world is growing, which is very important for the owners of the club. Assessment of the popularity of the club depends on an unlimited number of factors that may affect the popularity of the club in one way or another.
Relevance of the project is to create a special application with neural network based on econometric model of popularity for football clubs. The model would reflect the popularity of the club, using data related to transfers of players, stadium attendance, etc. This model could be quite complete, as it will take into account the most useful factors in the study. A special application with trained neural network will be created to automate all calculations and to record statistical emissions. These types of research are most often used by football club staff involved in sales, advertising and other PR activities. Employees can analyze the data and draw appropriate conclusions to change or improve the advertising policy of the club. In addition, the research may be useful for independent research groups who may conduct research based on this research and possibly create a more accurate model or a completely innovative research. 
The object of research of this work is the business process of accounting information about the clubs in recent seasons. The subject of the study is a model of the popularity of the football club. The purpose of the work is to create the application with neural network, using econometric model of popularity of football clubs.
There are number of questions which are the most important to answer for making research as deep as possible. In addition, research need to be real, i.e. the results must be close to reality.
1. How to measure the popularity in football?
2. Which type of model should be?
3. How to create a neural network?
4. How to present reached results? 
To achieve this goal will need to perform a number of tasks:
1. Analyze the subject area.
2. Identification of key indicators for study.
3. Selection and selection of data for the study.
4. Making popularity model.
5. Making neural network.
6. Making application with neural network.
7. Interpretation of the results obtained.
8. Suggestions how model and neural network can be improved.
LITERATURE REVIEW
MODEL
It is not a secret that sport is one of the biggest parts of countries economics. Every year income from sport grows. TV rights, sponsors or other sources of income provide good economic sport club's reports. Pawlowski, Breuer and Hovemann performed a study of salaries in famous European clubs. They found that salaries before 2000 and after this year differ more than twice. This information is not so trivial, because the graph in the article showed that figures also changed for rich and famous clubs too (e.g. FC Barcelona, salaries before 2000 were 5.5 millions of euros and after 2000 salaries become 22.3 millions of euros).   
The next indicator of popularity is competitive balance. Competitive balances increased too and a trend in popularity of football leagues was changing through years. It means that if competitive balance for football league is high, then the league is more competitive. So, it also means increased interest of fans. Competitive balance was studied by Girish Ramchandani.  At the moment of the research, the most competitive league was French league (League 1), 5 out of 6 indicators confirmed, that French league was the most competitive football league, but the interesting thing is that these indicators did not reflect the real picture of what is the situation with clubs' image, because there are more indicators which provide the impact for popularity of the club.  
Social networks are next criterion for popularity. It's a huge sector for research and finding some dependencies. This sector was researched by Lardo, Dumay, Trequattrini and Russo and Kiefer. The former authors made 3 hypothesizes and figured, that there is a linear connection between the indicators of social networks (subscribers of the installation, Facebook and other popular social media) and the income in the financial reports of sports teams. Kiefer made another research, it relates to study that examines the impact of the international football competition on the popularity of players and their cost on the international football players' market. As a result of this research all created models for vogue confirmed that international tournament had an impact on the increase of football players popularity and their transfer value.  
One more criterion of popularity is stadium attendance and television audience which was studied by Buraimo. The author of this article has built a model of stadium attendance and TV broadcasting during matches, taking into account the maximum possible number of signs associated with a football match. Moreover, as non-trivial signs, the author added the following variables: derby, distance between the team cities, Champions League tournament, match time, etc. As a result, this model can be considered complete enough for research and truthful enough to interpret the results for real life. 
Globalization is a part of football system, which provides the opportunity for players from other countries to play in non-domestic championships. This phenomenon was studied by Mutz. The author explained the reason for study by giving an example of a graph of Google searches from Spain about the German club Schalke 04.  Mutz made some hypothesizes which connected to public attention in a foreign European football club. As a result of study, author wrote that public attention is not stable, and it can be changed through years. 
The next huge sector of football world are transfers. The transfer's part was studied by Muehlheusser, Feess, Frick, Frias, Solberg, Haugen, Speight, Thomas, Coates, Naidenova, Parshakov. The most crucial research was made by Coates, Naidenova and Parshakov, their result is requirements for club's transfer policy (e.g. "it's better to hire players from a limited number of clubs" or don't buy a player from the same league). Frick showed the process of growing transfer system up and provide graphs for confirmation of growth. More proofs of increased transfer system were provided by Muehlheusser, Feess, they made models which reflect transfer systems in different time.
This section of the literature review is useful for the current study in that it provides the basis for an econometric model. Moreover, the sources listed in the current part of the literature review contain information about factors that are not as obvious as they might seem (e.g. derby factor in the calculation of the audience attention rate for a given team match).
NEURAL NETWORK
The development of the neural network is dedicated to a source by Martin Anthony and Peter L. Bartlett.  In this source, the authors explained about all the details of creating and configuring a neural network according to the developed model. It is this source that explains all necessary bases for building a correct neural network. Moreover, no less important information in the book is interpretation of results. In the future, the interpretation will help to implement the developed econometric model in real life (for example, in a real sports team).
An example of practical application of a neural network is shown by Korotyeyeva, T., Tushnytskyy, R and Kulyk. In their work you can also find a section with the interpretation of results related to football, which further simplifies further work with this section. 
UNPREDICTABLE FACTORS
One of the negative and unpredictable indicator for the popularity model is moral responsibility. This subject was studied by Frias. For the example, the author explained case of Gareth Bale, who was bought by Real Madrid for 100 million of EUR during worst Spanish crisis. This event led to the discontent of fans and the negative mood of all residents of Spain.  
There are two more unpredictable parts: ever-growing demands and crisis. Solberg and Haugen figured that European football clubs can generate huge revenues, but football clubs are seeking to earn as much as possible. Authors explain this fact by the fact that a club that wants to be as much competitive must maintain its composition int the strongest possible state, namely the composition must be filled with football stars, who are the main cost item for clubs. Also, authors showed the graph of growing salaries for football players through a couple of seasons. The minimum percentage of growth in salaries is 200%, it means that nowadays clubs must earn as much as possible because of risk to be bankrupt. 
The next reason is crisis. This research was made by Lago, Simmons and Szymanski. They figured, that a sufficient number of small clubs are in a state of crisis. Especially the crisis manifest itself in Italy, since the Italian crisis included even large clubs. Authors suggest several possible causes of the crisis: government policy and bad ownership structure. As a result of authors' activity, they offered the way which can help to avoid the crisis, this method is imposing tighter financial regulation from above, as exemplified by UEFA's club-licensing plan.
This part of the literature review shows and proves, through several sources, that there are factors that cannot be predicted and, perhaps, in some cases an econometric model will show results different from real life.
METHODS
The most significant research methods for this study are data collection, data analysis and econometric modeling.
DATA COLLECTION
For creating econometric model it is necessary to collect the most important data related to the popularity of sports clubs. For collecting data we will use some famous internet-sources for data: Kaggle and transfermarkt. Kaggle is a website with tons of datasets for research, there are a lot of data, which connected with current research. Transfermart portal is useful for viewing "special" information and selective data collection. Unfortunately, these sources cannot be representative because, as stated in the literature review, there are unobvious factors related to the popularity of sports teams, so any other data sources that are freely available will be used to create the correct model.
DATA ANALYSIS
For the data analysis there are crucial tools: MS Excel and Python, the programming language with all necessary libraries for data analysis.
MS Excel is useful for collecting data in .csv format for next processing. This format is often supported by data analysis tools.
Python will be useful in data analysis and creation the application with neural network. Via Python and huge number of required libraries, it is possible to analyze the available data quickly and efficiently enough.
ECONOMETRIC MODELING
The next method is econometric modeling. This method provides results of this research and it is quite voluminous because it requires some knowledge in a field of econometric. The first subtask in this method is to collect data for further model development. It also requires identifying sources for data collection. The next subtask is data analysis. In this case, it is necessary to identify which data may or may not be useful. After that, it is necessary to build a model, before that to choose a dependent variable, the value of which will be interpreted in the results, but do not forget about the independent variables, which just provide the desired result. Definition of a kind of econometric model for competent interpretation of the received results is also important as there is a whole set of them, for example, linear, nonlinear, punched-model, logit-model etc. The final subtask of this method is the interpretation of the results. The key aspects of this subtask are: what type of model was used, what results the model gave, how they can be described and whether the results are close to real life.
EXPECTED RESULTS
The expected results of this study are:
1. Analysis of data used, existing models and identification of the most effective.
2. Identification of the most influential factors on the basis of existing models with reasoning for the choice.
3. Created complete econometric model with factors which have the biggest impact on result. 
4. Created application with neural network based on econometric model.
CONCLUSION
This study can be used in different ways: as a material for other researches with similar topics or be implemented to football club system. Speaking of the first way, researchers can use research as a basis for calculating some data or improve an existing econometric model by adding or removing some of the variables. The next way of using this study provides the most significant practical value. The most suitable environment to use this model in the football club system is the marketing team. Marketers can make model-based calculations and analyze which factor affects their team the most and whether it is worth changing the marketing policy.
