INTRODUCTON
One of the key skills in science is a literature search for particular topic. Conventionally, the process of finding relevant literature can be divided into two phases: extraction of key words from the text and literature search using key words. Each stage is a separate task. 
The process of drafting key sentences of the text is very time consuming. The solution to this problem is the automatic extraction of key phrases from text. There are various algorithms and systems to extract key phrases. However, usually such systems are not universal and can work with one or two languages, as a major role in this process is played by language features. Russian language is rather difficult for automatic processing, so there are not many systems to extract key phrases from texts in Russian. 
When searching the literature user usually works with electronic library, performing a query using extracted keywords. There are various sites, apps that work with known databases, or have their own database of scientific literature. 
During the study of the problem, there was found the lack of systems that automatically perform both stages of the literature search. Automated only individual steps of the process, not the process itself, s the development of the system find the relevant literature, is important issue.
The most difficult part for implementation is keywords extraction component.
In one of the first reviews about terms extraction Kaguera analyzed 2 processes: automatic indexing and term extraction. The focus of the review is given by association methods and modifications of TF-IDF. The authors  introduced one of the first aspects of term:  “unithood” - words  linking in lengthy terms; and “termnhood” - proximity to the term domain. Furthermore there are highlighted two classes of methods: linguistic and statistical. However modern scientists don’t make such division.
Pazizenza focuses on association methods (Dice Factor, z-test, t-test), and on the most simple methods for determining term domain(C-value, Co-Occurance) and considers linguistic methods as set of filters. It extends existing methods and optimizes them.
However, experimental comparison of 200 under the name «You cannot beat frequency (unless you use linguistic knowledge): a qualitative evaluation of association measures for collocation and term extraction» shows that the measures of association, despite the theory of mathematical statistics, lying in the basis of their work, have the same effectiveness as usual frequency of occurrences. It has big influence on the area, because technical realization on methods based on frequency much easier than association methods. 
So, using these works, allows to use the most appropriate algorithm for keywords extraction. 
The number of articles in electronic form is constantly increasing, so searching for literature takes more time. That means that results of this work will be valuable and developed application will be worth to use.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Searching relevant literature must be convenient process. There should be opportunity to download input text in different formats, and to save information about previous results of working with application. User must have opportunity to choose extracted keywords for query to libraries. Extracted phrases must be sensible and in right order and form. And of course the whole process must be quick. Unfortunately, the reality is far from ideal. There are no systems for extracting keywords and making query at one time, which separates process on two part, and takes a lot of time. Sometimes extraction keywords systems give results in wrong form, or do it slow. Usually there no opportunity to download text in different format, or this feature available only in commercial versions.
New system will be convenient for user, because there will be opportunity to download text in different formats. Developed system will save time, because it automates process. It will also extract keywords carefully, in right order and form, which will increase the quality of results of working with application.
OBJECTIVES AND AIM
The general objective of this research is Relevant Documents Search System Development. 
To score the goal, it is necessary to solve next tasks. First of all, it is necessary to find information about existing algorithms and systems and compare them by different criteria. Then design and develop keywords extraction component, of course this step includes testing. Then design and develop query component, test it, develop database with information about electronic libraries. The last step is to integrate these components in one system. Finally it is necessary to compare developed system with existing analogues.
METHODS 
Following research association methods have the same effectiveness as frequency methods, so for extraction keywords TF-IDF metrics was used. It is the most common measure to calculate the information content of terms. The weight of the term proportional to the number of occurrences of the term in the document and inversely proportional to the frequency of use in other documents in the collection. The feature of this measure is that if you change the number of documents in the collection, you must count the frequency of all terms again.
TF (Term Frequency) - the frequency of the term in the analyzed document, the ratio of the number of occurrences of the term to the number of terms in the document.
IDF (Inverse Document Frequency) inverted document frequency, the frequency with which the term occurs in other documents in the collection.
Where
N – the total number of documents in the collection (corpus);
df – the number of documents containing the term.
For making the application were used the program language C# and ADO.NET technology. C# is an object-oriented language, which provides programmers with big array of tools. It allows to create database applications, using ADO.NET technology. 
Data analysis showed, that most popular scientific libraries, which support Russian language are elibrary, cyberleninka and gpntb library, so, developed system make queries using extracted keywords to these libraries.
PREDICTED RESULTS/FINDINGS
It is expected, that there will be working web application, which will allow making all listed actions. It will consist of two parts: keywords extraction component and web query component. There will be opportunity to download text in different formats, to choose extracted keywords for query and to sort results. It will be used by Russian students, teachers, and all people searching scientific literature.
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The application can be used only in Russian languages. It was constructed taking into account features of Russian language. Of course, all elements of interface are in russian too. It does not cover all Russian scientific libraries, so, results of work are not full.
However, is the only application which automates the whole process of searching relevant literature in Russian language. The study was conducted in a short time.
CONCLUSION
Following tasks were solved while doing this research: existing algorithms and systems were analyzed and compared, keywords extraction component was designed and developed, query component was designed and developed, both components were integrated and system was compared with existing analogues. After that, the goal was scored – relevant documents search system was developed. Clustering was chosen as the keywords extraction algorithm. The application created on C# using ADO.NET technology. In future, application can be adapted and translated for foreign users. New features can be added, such as auto summarization.
     
