Introduction
Background. The modern system of student self-government at the National Research University "Higher School of Economics" cannot be imagined without one important component - the Student Council. This body is fixed by internal regulations and represents the interests and opinions of students, as well as coordinates the implementation of educational, scientific and extra-curricular student initiatives. In order to solve problems and issues, the Student Council actively cooperates with the administration of the HSE National Research University, offering solutions to problems and issues that have arisen, and with administration the HSE National Research University should also take into account the opinion of the Student Council in solving educational issues related to students. The interaction between the administration of the HSE National Research University and the Student Council is necessarily accompanied by a large number of official documents, which are necessary to reflect and consolidate the decisions made, and therefore it is necessary to create a large number of such documents, which is quite a time-consuming process. Creating an information system for forming such documents will allow increasing the speed of the Student Council's work.
Problem Statement. The aim of this study is to develop an information system for generating excerpts containing information about the decisions of the HSE-Perm Student Council. The objectives of this research are as follows: 
1. To analyze the subject area by the example of the current work of the HSE Student Council with documents. 
2. Design of the system under development 
3. Selection of means for realization of the system under development 
4. Development of information system 
5. Testing and debugging of information system 
6. Preparation of technical documentation about information system 
7. Implementation of an information system into the work of the student council
Delimitations of the Study. The issues under consideration include understanding how the HSE Student Council - Perm works with official documents. This area includes creating documents using special templates, processing information from emails from the administration and introducing the obtained information into the document, the process of voting by the members of the Student Council on the issues raised, the process of obtaining voting results and introducing them into the formed document. It should also be noted that in addition to the work of the Student Council, the process of automation of work with documents is also considered - ways to automate each stage of work with documents are considered. Thus, in considered questions we also include process of working out of information system by means of the preliminary chosen methods
Professional Significance. The developed solution will automate the work of the Student Council with documents, which will speed up the work of both the Student Council itself and the administration of the National Research University Higher School of Economics - Perm. This work leads to a reduction in human labor and time, that spent on a bureaucratic work.
Definitions of Key Terms. Statement - a document that contains information on decisions taken by the Student Council on administrative issues of the university.
Literature Review
The main problems in solving the tasks set in this paper are the problem of document generation, identification of document templates and construction of the development process itself. In the first case we are talking about the process of document creation itself - with what algorithms to do it, where to get information from, how to insert it and what methods to use in this case? In the second case there is a problem of analysis of already existing documents with the purpose of formation of ready-made templates - by means of what algorithms we should do it and how to achieve the maximum result? In the case of the third question it is necessary to understand, and what means should be used in development to apply the result to the student council activity as much as possible? This review includes literature that can be applied to the task of creating a system of document generation for the Student Council. 
We begin with the first question. Among the analyzed sources there is a tendency to create documents by keywords and on the base of a predetermined template - the user should choose a template and already there will be added information on the base of keywords, creating a full document. Let's turn to research on creation of the generator of recipe book [10]. In the study, the authors have built a recipe book generator based on pre-created templates - work was done to create a graphical layout of the page with information, and filling this layout with keywords, where the information should already be added. This solution is interesting because the idea of inserting information by keywords perfectly fits the existing area - in the work of the student council often found similar wording that can be used in the generation of documents. In the article "A Document Classification and Extraction System with Learning Ability" the authors offer a new approach to document recognition - based on logical proximity of lexical units. This system is based on machine learning, which makes it possible to train it on already prepared documents and further on the base of the model built to extract data from new documents. This approach can be applied at extraction of the information from letters from university administration - the received information should be transformed and in already processed kind to place in the statement. In works concerning automatic generation of the hotel description and automatic generation of comments to a code authors also use definition of a context by keywords - only ways of realization differ, as in the work concerning the hotel description Markov chains are used. Thus, as a result of a review of these works, we can conclude that the use of keywords in the analysis and generation of documents will allow us to build a process both for extracting information from existing documents and adding information to a new document. An important point is also that there is a clear trend in the works to use templates, which has also been identified as a problem in this study and will certainly be used. 
Let's consider the problem of creating templates based on already existing documents. Creation of templates on the basis of already existing documents is an important part of work as it will allow to use already created documents for generation of new. So, the problem of reuse of documents was already raised in works - for example, in research "Documentation Reuse: Managing Similar Documents" on the basis of similarity between the contents of documents already existing documents were grouped, and then on their basis the template which could be applied at creation of the document in Microsoft Word was generated. A similar approach is used in the work "Text Document Classification and Pattern Recognition" - on the basis of frequency of use and position of keywords similar documents were also grouped, and templates are already formed on the basis of exactly the selected keywords. Besides grouping documents, other methods of generating templates can be used. So, in work "Finding Short Patterns to Classify Text Documents" on the basis of the text analysis and revealing of keywords the tree on which basis the document can be attributed both to already existing category of templates, and to allocate a new pattern is constructed. Researchers call this algorithm a method of "search in depth". Other method are used in "Pattern Discovery for Text Mining" - on the basis of an available set of keywords the similar template of their use is searched, and on the basis of such sets and the template is generated. Thus, we have found out, that generation of templates means allocation of keywords for their use at creation of already new document.
Finally, let us turn to the question of the means to be used in developing this information system. At working out of any application for the personal computer it is expedient to take advantage of IDE - the Integrated Development Environment. One of such means is Visual Studio and it will be used when developing this information system, because in comparison with other IDEs this development environment shows itself to be one of the fastest, if we are guided by the results of "A Study of Visual Studio Usage in Practice". Besides, it has been noticed that in its work the student council actively uses the VK social network to organize its work and, in particular, to vote on the issues which are not put on the agenda of the meetings. It seems expedient to automate this feature by obtaining data from polls in the social network. The VK API, which provides information for developers on the methods by which they can obtain information from the social network, will help us with this. Thus, we have found out that it would be reasonable to use Visual Studio development environment and address the data of VK social network in this work. 
As a result of this literature review, we have received information about what the situation looks like at the moment in the sphere of analyzing documents, generating them and making templates. The main methods and ways, with the help of which it is possible to implement the analysis and generation of documents, generation of document templates, were revealed. In addition, in the existing works and reference books, information was obtained on what tools should be used in developing an information system.
Methods
In this work, the survey method and the observation method will be used first. We need to understand which areas of document management need to be automated for the student council to work more conveniently. To this end, the first step will be to survey the secretariat, which works directly with the documents, to understand exactly what to work on. Observation will make it possible to understand the principles of current work with documents, which will make it possible to derive algorithms and principles of work of the system. 
Methods of analysis of existing documents will allow using certain algorithms on the basis of keywords to form templates, which will be used to generate new documents. 
Methods of development of the system itself include, first of all, building the architecture of the system under development on the basis of the facts obtained as a result of the survey and observation. Design of the information system will be made in UML language, which is a universally recognized standard. On the basis of the developed architecture of the system will be written program code of the application itself, which will allow later to compile it to create a working system. Development will be performed in Visual Studio development environment using VK API methods.
Anticipated Results
The result of the study should be a system that automatically generates documents containing official information about the work of the Student Council for further use of these documents by the administration of the university, which leads to the optimization of both time and human resources. The system itself stores information about document templates, a link to the survey results in VK network or, directly, the survey results themselves, information about the current composition of the Student Council. The additional information is specified by the user when working with the document generation system. Data storage is supposed to be organized using a cloud database containing editable and replaceable document templates. This will allow to organize a hot replacement of document templates and add new ones if necessary. Most likely, this system will work on Microsoft Windows operating system using Google Drive cloud storage technologies, as this configuration allows you to create an optimal environment for the system.
Conclusion
As a result of this work, it can be concluded that the focus should be on how the information system will generate the document. The method of keyword identification will be used as identified methods for implementation, as this method is universal and can be used both for analyzing existing documents in order to form templates and for generating new ones. As a prospect of this work, one can single out use of third-party services for obtaining information necessary for inclusion in a document, not only existing documents as a basis.
