Introduction
Background. Currently, it is difficult to imagine that there is an area in which one could possibly exist without electricity. Electricity is the basic sector of the economy, which has a significant role in forming the resources of the government and regional budgets of the country. However, "many other sectors of industry have some form of stockpile to store and buffer their products and services, but the electric power industry cannot be stored massively. Consequently, electricity has to be produced and delivered as soon as it is consumed". But there is a problem due to the fact that electricity consumption is unbalanced, resulting in peaks in energy demand, when the demand for energy exceeds the capacity of the energy company providing the electric power. This situation leads to the fact that electricity from the night time does not find its consumer, while in the afternoon, during peak hours, there is a shortage of electricity in the power system. Excessive production of electricity and its irrational use throughout a day also leads to a number of environmental and economic problems.
Problem Statement. The solution to this problem is to forecast electricity demand and to control it. As for the Russian electricity market, the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation dated 20.03.2019 No. 287 has introduced the definition of a new participant - "Electricity demand management aggregate - an electric power industry entity that brings together the resources of retail consumers to provide electricity demand management services. In this model, load aggregators are wholesale electricity market participants who manage load changes of a group of consumers in order to sell the aggregate of regulatory capacities of these consumers as a single object as a product/service at the wholesale market". Therefore, the purpose of the research is to develop an information system for forecasting electricity demand, which allows for the building of an estimated hourly schedule of energy consumption directed to the aggregator, according to the results of which he decides how much and at which time the companies that have concluded a contract with him, should reduce or limit electricity consumption. The set aim requires the following tasks to be achieved:
1. To analyze energy consumption features.
2. To analyze methods of forecasting electricity demand. 
3. To implement the system to forecast energy consumption. 
4. To estimate the implemented models. 
Delimitations of the Study. It should be noted that in this project the energy consumers include electric power companies, rather than household users. In addition, the system being developed is focused on the Russian market, because for our country demand response is a new direction. It exists in the world for more than ten years, therefore, the review of existing approaches will select five main methods that are used in the world.
Professional Significance. The advantage of this solution is to reduce the load on the electricity grid during peak hours. The second distinguishing feature is the significant cost reduction. If the load is equal, signaled by the lack of peaks in consumption, it will be possible to transfer the difference in electricity consumption to the hours with the lowest cost. 
Literature ReviewThis literature review will describe the main methods of building demand forecasts for electricity consumption, identifying the advantages and disadvantages of each method to select the best approach for implementing the system.
Forecasting is a highly complicated method, depending heavily on the type of data to be predicted and the amount of this data. The accuracy of load forecasting has a significant impact on the energy system, as demand response can be sensitive to forecasting errors. According to Alfares and Nazeeruddin, "load forecasting is a central and essential process of planning and operation of electric power plants, which includes accurate forecasting of both the magnitudes and geographical positions of the electric load in different periods of the planning horizon". One approach to building the forecast model is multiple regression analysis using the estimation of least squares weighted.  They specified that this method can determine the dependence between total load, weather conditions and the day type by weighing equal or exponential least squares using a set of data obtained from the accumulation over some period. However, their research revealed that this method is appropriate for making short-term forecasts, as it requires a large amount of accumulated data on which depend on the success of the built model, they also included the disadvantages of this model that it is relies on explanatory variables and needs explanatory variable.
The second method proposed by Alfares and Nazeeruddin is fuzzy logic. Their research states that this method is divided into two stages: training and online forecasting. In the process of training the real accumulated data are used to generate patterns database and a fuzzy rule base by using first and second-order differences of the data. "After enough training, it will be linked with a controller to predict the load change online, where the most probable matching pattern is located with the most possible probability". Their research has resulted in the conclusion that "this approach outperforms classical deterministic models because it is able to represent the intrinsic uncertainty of the process", but which excludes the type of day (e.g. a holiday) for which the neural network combination was required in this case.
According to Haben et al., the way to optimally forecast electricity consumption with minimal losses is kernel density estimation. The authors confirm that this method had an advantageous result in the GEFCom 2014 competition by building forecasts for individual smart meter data. The concept of their research was to create conditional distribution under the impact of several factors, including the period of the week and changes in weather conditions. As a result, they concluded that this method has an advantage over the regression model because it finds a correlation between demand and influencing factors simultaneously, while in the regression model it is necessary to build a model for each factor. However, this advantage hides the drawback due to high computational costs because of the large amount of data in the process of model building.
Chitsaz used two different approaches to predictive processes based on wavelet. Their difference is that the first one "uses the wavelet transform as a processor to compose the load time series" and the second one as a wavelet neural network (WNN) "in which a wavelet function is used as the activation function of the hidden neurons". Looking at their approach to building a forecast, I came to the fact that the description of this method contains a significant number of terms from mathematical statistics, the meaning of which is unknown to me. For me, this model turned out to be a difficult one, the results of which are hardly interpreted, so I concluded that this method will not be used in my project.   
In contrast, Soares and Medeiros use a specific approach of seasonal ARIMA model, which is different from previous researches. The principle of building the models in their research was to divide the obtained electric power consumption data into hourly sections and apply the above models to each section. In this case, the load for each hour of the day is considered separately as a sequence. Since the forecast is building for each hour separately, the modelling does not require a large amount of accumulated data, which is a major advantage of this method. For the same reason, there is the second advantage of high accuracy in short-term forecasts. Researchers also note that "considering more complex non-linear models, such as neural networks, does not provide any obvious benefit in terms of predicting performance". The result of their research is a suggestion to mix the combinations of predictions and divide into time intervals.    
As a result of consideration of the above mentioned articles and the approaches indicated in them, we may conclude that a combination of several simple methods, based on their merits, is better way in the system implementation.
Methods
As we can see from the previous section, electricity demand management is a complex process that requires careful preparation and understanding of how this process works. This section will describe how to ensure that the aim is achieved successfully. 
First, it is necessary to analyze the area of electricity consumption. Identify which factors influence demand to a significant extent and which factors influence demand to the lowest extent. For this task it is necessary to identify three or four literary sources that describe the energy consumption in the world and in Russia in particular. Then identify the key aspects in this area. To do this, you can use the frequency dictionary and track which factors are most frequently used. You can use another method, which is to use a ready-made set of significant factors and search for them among the literature you have read.
Secondly, it is necessary to determine which forecasting models will optimally determine the electricity consumption for the future period. After identifying the key factors, it is important to determine with precision how these factors will be processed. To resolve this problem, you need to find existing model building methods and determine which ones are more appropriate for your area. To do this, make a comparison table where the first column corresponds to the name of the model, and the subsequent columns correspond to a specific factor that affects the model, such as processing time or the number of deviations from the test sample data.
Thirdly, after choosing the optimal electricity demand forecasting model, you will need to install a Python interpreter to build and train the model. Then you have to fill the SQL database with the obtained data and IDE to implement a graphical shell of the system. After implementation, the final stage will be testing a set of data obtained from real sensors of the energy company using root-mean-square error (RMSE) to assess the error.
Results Anticipated
The result of this research will determine which factors influence electricity consumption.  The analysis of the existing approaches, based on the identified factors, will identify the models most relevant for demand forecasting and the possibility of their combination to find the optimal solution. At a stage of system projecting there will be formed a number of documents for specification of works volume. These documents include the class diagram, component diagram and data flow diagram, also the statement of work, user manuals and programmer manuals. The result of previous efforts should be a system that allows forecasting hourly electricity demand by building mathematical models in python language, which divides the forecast into time intervals based on data obtained from real data from the energy company. After that, the forecast should be forwarded to the aggregator to decision on the reduction of electricity consumption, by what amount, at what time and for how many members of the demand reduction project.
Conclusion
Five approaches have been reviewed in this paper and having explored all of these approaches, we can find the optimal solution in combination of two or more of the considered approaches. The development of the automated system based on the built models will allow forecasting and managing electricity demand. At the same time, it has practical significance for the development of the country's economy, which is demonstrated in the balance of electricity production and consumption. Hence, it also makes it possible to ensure a secure energy supply or integration of renewable energy sources. The second important aspect of this study is the educational value that comes from working with new data from sensors and devices, in search of the optimal models combination and improvement of development skills in building these models.
