Introduction
The educational efficiency is defined as a level of a factual knowledge that students have. High efficiency is provided by regular interaction practice. Modern education gives students a broad theoretical base. In order to take professional practice employers have to organize training for candidates. Nevertheless, according to the latest tendencies companies need competences.
Competence is not only a set of knowledge and skills but also personal characteristics such as attitudes to the activity, motives, maturity. In this way, competences show the personal attitude to the work activity, which is more relevant to employer than students’ knowledge. 
The active learning methods such as a business game allow students to train themselves in real cases. Consequently, students learn only required theoretic information and directly use this information on practice. When students face a problem, the tutor can change the game condition or even stop the game. On the other side, the computer-based business games automatically adopt the game to the user depending on their results. The example of such a system is the Competence-based business game studio (CBGS) which is developing on the base of the Business Informatics department of HSE-Perm.
The CBGS is a complex system that enables students to develop competences in an individual way. This approach is realized by the assessment module, which changes the game circumstances depending on the computing test results. Computer-based testing makes possible using complex types of questions and controls various sets of parameters, which can foster competence as well as check them.
Problem statement
The competences needed for the professional success differ from those that students get in the university. This gap makes students do self-education or attend professional courses. Advanced technologies allow students to select an educational program with individual settings. Modern e-learning systems collect the user’s information to make personal advices about educational plan or suggest courses that might be interesting to the user.
Thus, questions have been raised about the use of automated user’s data collection. The computer-based testing is a leading approach of collecting information about students’ educational results. Tests that are used in the complex system such as the business game studio must be adopted to a huge amount of the game scenarios and should be able to check competences.
Objective and aims
The primary aim of this study is the test design module development which will assess competences for business game. This aim can be divided into two secondary aims which are test task editor and test generator development.
The first objective is to study existing test and question models that are used to assess the level of competence. On the base of those models, design the test structure for the computer business game.
The next objective is to analyze test generating algorithms and adopt one of them to the studio development.
Finally develop the test design module as a web service.
Methods
The test design module is the prototype for the business games studio. This module should provide a standard form of test representation for further functional expansion and the possible exchange between learning systems.
There are three standards of e-learning content: IMS, SCORM and AICC. These standards consist of elements that facilitate the design, development and implementation of a computer-based education system. In the framework of this work, only those elements will be analyzed that permit the test content representation, for instance IMS Question & Test Interoperability.
Based on a chosen standard, the application model is designed using UML diagrams which describe the system structure and its work process. The web application development will be realized by the Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 WEB Forms. This element gives the opportunity to develop web service using standard tools of Windows application development, such as a database and the additional library connection.
Predicted results
The test design module development of assessment subsystem includes test task editor and test generator development. The section of the test task editor required a form for editing the closed questions representation. As a part of the competence-based business game, the editor should have the fields to select the type of question and competences to be checked. Furthermore, an expert should have a possibility to choose a question subject and select a complexity level on a scale of one (simple) to five (increased difficulty) and an assessment of learning competence on a scale of zero (skill is not developed fully) to three (fully assimilated).
The test generator should give an expert the permission to assemble test questions based on the set of parameters, such as subject, complexity and learning competences. The generated test should be stored in the system and be importable to Microsoft Word.
Strengths and limitations of study
Due to practical constraints, the test does not support a comprehensive competence assessment. Yet, all elements of the competences can be checked by a test with additional limits like time or multimedia resources.
The development of the prototype of the test design module that can be adopted to further changes in the business game process is in the scope of this study. Therefore, the application should have the basic functions of the test design.
In addition to main application development, the ability to import a test into an exterior document such as Microsoft Word will be added.
Conclusion
Competences become a major characteristic of professional success. Education system shifts its orientation from knowledge assessment to an integrated form of competences assessment. The self-education tends to use advanced technological solutions to adapt courses to the personal usage.
The main goal of the current study was to develop a test design module that allows experts to edit test tasks and generate tests based on a set of parameters. Unfortunately, as a prototype, the module will work only with traditional types of test questions, that does not provide comprehensive competence assessment.
The web service of test design was developed by using Web Form in MS Visual Studio 2015. Test data is stored in a SQL database and can be imported into an external source like MS Word.
This research provides a framework for a test design module. In order to increase competence-checking a multimedia type of questions still needs to be developed. The generated test will be used during students’ exam in assessment subsystem on the base of game scenarios. 
