INTRODUCTION
Basically all modern program products include various algorithms. Majority of software products are provided with clearly formalized algorithms, but over the last years systems, which implement the artificial intelligence capabilities, start to gain popularity. The main reasons for spreading artificial intelligence systems are: their flexibility, adaptability for changes, and short time for decision-making process.
Artificial intelligence in many aspects is copying the processes that occur in nature. For instance, genetic algorithms imitate the process of evolution. Abovementioned algorithms are the leading area of artificial intelligence study. The basic principles of genetic algorithms were formulated by Holland in 1975. Since then, they were changed and improved, however the Holland’s principles are still relevant. Genetic algorithms are suitable for solving optimization problems and modeling tasks.
Genetic algorithms are commonly used in the gaming industry. Virtual player, based on such algorithm, lays the elements of chance in the program, increases retrieval rate the optimal solutions and develops more effective strategy. In this regard, the usage of genetic algorithms allows more accurately simulate the behavior of human player. 
The article “Evolving a Team in a First-Person Shooter Game by Using a Genetic Algorithm” by C. Liaw et al. demonstrates the implementation of genetic algorithm for training game agents. The approach of the authors uses a finite-state machine to simplify the progress of a game and evaluates the effect of tactics teams used in certain situations. The results show that the performance of evolved teams is better than that of unevolved teams. This example acquits application of evolutionary algorithms for strategy design in game development.
In their article “A genetic algorithm for the Zen Puzzle Garden game” M. Amos and J. Coldridge compare two solutions of a block-based puzzle game: the realization of genetic algorithm with the A* algorithm and solution with the search-tree (informed search). The results of study prove that the genetic algorithm solution requires less computation finding optimum in contradiction to traditional method.
The overviewed articles in area of genetic algorithms established the general knowledge about genetic algorithms and showed the experience of their implementation, their advantage over other approaches.
This study is aimed to develop and implement genetic algorithm for board game Quarto. It is designed for two players, where they make in turn. Game contains 16 different pieces with four attributes: color, shape, height, top. The color can be light or dark; shape – round or square; height can be tall or short, top – solid or hollow. Furthermore, the game has a board 4x4 divided into sectors. Each sector fits one piece. From the point of view of the player there are three possible outcome of the game: the victory, the defeat, the draw. Players collect at least a row of four pieces, with one common attribute. The player, who arranges such row, wins. The piece for a turn is chosen by the opponent and this makes the game originality.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
In this research, genetic algorithms will be applied for the development of the algorithm for the game, which will devise a winning strategy. Unfortunately, at the moment a winning strategy has not been carefully studied. The implementation of genetic algorithms can improve the search process through possible solutions, because it allows obtaining an optimal solution faster. That is why development and realization of the algorithm will extend the knowledge about the game and will help to create an intelligent virtual player.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The aim of this study is to create a genetic algorithm for the game Quarto to design a strategy that will help to defeat the opponent in the game. To achieve this goal it is necessary to reach some objectives. Firstly, the subject area should be analyzed. Secondly, the general overview of the algorithms that are implemented in games need to be presented. Next, the benefits of genetic algorithms implementation have to be identified. Furthermore, the analysis of game Quarto and players’ strategies ought to be performed. After that step it is needed to develop a genetic algorithm for the design of a winning strategy for the game Quarto. It must be tested after such algorithm development. Finally, a comparative analysis of random player and virtual player based on genetic algorithm, and comparison of the target functions should be conducted. It is crucial to accomplish all stated objectives, in order to fulfill the aim of the study. 
METHODS AND TOOLS
Generally creation of virtual player for board games like chess, backgammon is based on search among all possible solution. It can be done with different methods, but all these methods are typically suffering from time consuming problem, or demand of a high computation. That is why genetic algorithms can be effective for solving similar task.
The primary technique that will be used in this study is genetic algorithms. Genetic algorithm’s functioning is based on the Darwin's theory of evolution. The basic principles of genetic algorithms were formulated by Holland in 1975. The implementation area of genetic algorithms is quite extensive: the bridge structures design, the optimal placement determination of components, load management for multiprocessor computers for solving logistics issues.
Genetic algorithms are adaptive search techniques; which are suitable for optimization and modeling tasks. They imitate main stages of evolutionary processes: inheritance, selection, crossover, mutation. All the key terms for this algorithm are taken from genetics. 
This algorithm is created to solve a problem, so the population of individuals embodies a set of all possible solution of this problem. For practical implementation of the algorithm it is necessary to decide how to encode possible solution represented by chromosomes. 
Operation of any genetic algorithm begins with generating the initial population, which is typically random. The size of the population is often constant and does not vary with time. 
The process of selection begins after the creation of the population of the individuals. Selection is closely related to a fitness function. The fitness function labels each individual with certain numerical value according to its proximity to the required solution of the problem. The main purpose of selective process is to give preference to better individuals, for providing them with the opportunity to transmit their genes to next generation. 
The next stage is crossover. This process requires two individuals from current population; they will be parents for the next generation. Their chromosomes combine with each other in any manner and we get two new individuals (their children), they represent new generation. For example, dividing parents’ chromosomes into two parts we combine them with each other in pairs to create the new individual. Individuals that have higher survival rate (fitness) are more likely to take part in crossover. 
Beside the crossover, there is such mechanism as mutation. It allows increasing the probability of convergence of the algorithm. As in nature, this process randomly changes some parts of chromosome. 
If the current generation of individuals contains solution that is sufficiently close to the answer, the problem is solved. Otherwise, genetic algorithm is working further and population goes through the same process again (selection, crossover, mutation). These processes repeat until the appropriate solution of the problem will be discovered.
In this paper individual’s chromosome will be represented as game board with different combination of pieces. The supreme solution has the greatest number of possible combinations with the current position of the pieces on the board. The crossover can be designed in different ways, better variant will be chosen after conducting experiments. 
At the moment there is an idea of how it can be carried out: first, index, until which changes will be made, randomly generates. The process of crossover begins with zero position and finishes with the position, which has index that has been generated before. In loop we check if the fitness of one parent is better than fitness of another parent. If all the conditions are fulfilled the process of crossover is conducted in the following way: the piece is taken by index from the supreme individual; it is (the piece) substituted by the other piece of non-supreme individual position; these two pieces positions are exchanged. The important thing about crossover function is that the sectors that are already occupied by piece on the board will not take part in the process. 
Mutation can be represented easily: the number is generated if it is lower that mutation rate the mutation is performed, if not there are no changes for this position. If the generated number is lower than mutation rate two pieces on the board are randomly changed. It is important to emphasize that changes are not made with pieces that are already on board as in crossover. 
If take into account all abovementioned and apply is to algorithm, it will result an effective strategy in game Quarto which leading to the winning case.
PREDICTED RESULTS/FINDINGS
New designed genetic algorithm is supposed to occur as the result of current study. The aim of the algorithm is to generate the case of winning. The victories’ percent of virtual player surpass the victories’ percent of a random player. The supreme variant might be when virtual player will be able to win human player. In future this algorithm will form solid basis for the electronic version of the game Quarto. Moreover, it can be the essence for supporter for beginners in the game.
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The aim of the study is not targeted on developing the whole game with different modes, for example supporting multiplayer. It is focused to develop genetic algorithm for design a winning strategy.
CONCLUSION
Software with artificial intelligence component became more popular recently. Genetic algorithms are widely applied in game industry. Some examples of their successful implementation are mentioned in reviewed articles. The advantages of genetic algorithms over other methods inspired their appliance to the board game Quarto.
Generally the genetic algorithm consists of four main stages: creation of initial population, selection, crossover, mutations. The last three stages are repeated until the proximate solution will be found. In this research, the individual will be represented as a one game board combination. Developed algorithm will be able to design winning strategy. This can be valid for human players as well as virtual players.
The study is focused only on developing and implementation of this algorithm. In future it will form a basis for the electronic version of game. This version may include both modes: for virtual and human players. Furthermore, the algorithm can be implemented for designing players’ supporter in the game.
