INTRODUCTION
The topic of research is statistic visualization in corpus linguistics. This area is fast developing field of study. There are many software contribute functions capable of solving almost text processing problems. The most popular ones among linguists are GATE and NOOJ.  GATE is in active use for all types of computational task involving human language. The second one is NooJ. It processes texts and sets of text files at the Orthographical, Lexical, Morphological, Syntactic and Semantic levels. 
Although some researches have been carried out on corpora and instruments for analyzing data, no studies have been found which allow user to visualize findings. During work with massive sets of data it is needed to observe trends and consequences. Linguists have to investigate and research numbers of word. Therefore the problem consists of no single study of specific visualization in corpus linguistics. 
Visualization is an important aspect of representing data. The motivation of this research is described by uniqueness of statistic visualization in corpus linguistics. There are many web applications which represent statistic data, but these do not provide with specific features for linguistics’ requirements. That is essential advantage for current research.
With the explosive growth of the information, the demands of representing the data in the object models for better understanding by users. In the past decades years, the research and application of data visualization has been made considerable progress both in academia and industry. According to Chen C-H,H?rdle W and Unwin A it was emphasized that data models have more positive influence on cognitive understanding of trends and sequences rather than keeping data in tables or text documents. Moreover, Ata Kab?n, Jianyong Sun, Somak Raychaudhury and Louisa Nolan claim that visual interpretation will lead society to new generation of representing data.  In addition, Christophe Lienert and Stefan Meier specify the growing expectations of society for access to data on the Internet via browser-based and mobile device-based structures. Thus, it is relevant for study that application would be scalable and appropriate for different types of platforms. 
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Linguists face with necessity to handle big set of text data in daily routine. Linguists must bring the analysis of text structure such as counting the words. It depends on strong concentration and accuracy because they should perform this process manually. With help of developing application the process of text analysis will be easier for linguists. 
Using representation of given data the application will transform these into diagrams, graphs and other objects. The main advantage of this research is creating web application that will improve and speed up analyzing huge amount of data during text processing. 
However, today there are no analogs to application and linguists can’t minimize the period of processing data. Existing systems do not allow users to interpret data in easiest way. Instead of it these provide users with inflexible and less functional tools. These are often difficult in use and do not always represent the processed information in a visual form. Statistical data obtained during the parsing of text are difficult to interpret. This slows down the process of analyzing the document. 
AIM AND OBJECTIVES
The purpose of the research paper is developing web application, which allows imaging obtained data during the processing of the text. According to current aim it was emphasized the follow objectives:
1. Investigate the mathematical methods and tools for processing of statistics.
2. Explore data visualization tools which are used on the Internet and then carry out the analysis of these tools.
3. Discover recent researches and existing literature in this field.
4. Create algorithms for visualization of statistical data in the web application.
5. Defining the terms of reference.
6. Design all components for application using notation UML.
7. Write code and implement a comprehensive testing and debugging of the service.
METHODS
The problem is solved using the methods of mathematical statistics, combinatorics and graph theory. In addition, it is planned to use web programming technologies such as high-level programming language is JavaScript, markup language is HTML5 and language styles is CSS3.
PREDICTED FINDINGS
Web application for statistic visualization should be developed during current research. It should include tools and instruments for linguistic requirements. It is planned to integrate working application into the target system due to the user can quickly represent the resulting data in a visual form. As well as web application should be suitable for other systems and sites. It is necessary to have open API for programmers’ needs that to implement application as component of their system. As a result, web application should provide users with automatic assembling different types of graphs and diagrams for research. Moreover, it must have the ability to manually handle the diagrams for linguists’ requirements.
LIMITATIONS AND STRENGTHS
Unfortunately, it is not possible to develop the ideal application because of limited time boundaries. In addition, the final version of system depends on four people. Despite the fact that each of us creates distant part, at the finish of the developing all of them must be compiled together.  This factor can be significant for research project because each person work in his manner and sometimes somebody can slow down the developing process.
In spite of the obstacles, which were described in the limitation section, the solution was founded. Creating API for third-party developers will be delayed for the future researches. It is planned to continue development and every time to improve functional modules of web application. In addition, all team mates will communicate with each other and support those who can’t handle with complex parts of system. It helps to manage and speed up the whole process of developing.
CONCLUSION
In this investigation, the aim was developing web application which provides visualization for specific linguists’ requirements. In this research, all objectives were achieved and described, such as design and implementation relevant components of application, testing and debugging executable code. As a result users will get flexible and extensible application which is integrated into final system. The users will be able to manipulate processed data manually or the data may be combined into visual representation automatically that to fasten the process of analyzing text document. For the future researches, it is needed to discuss with linguists about improvements which can be added into revised version. In addition, it is important to provide third-party developers with API and instruments for implementation in their systems.
