INTRODUCTION
Background. According to the study, companies with high employee
engagement have 22–43% higher shareholder returns, 17% higher operating profit and 18–21% higher labor productivity. Thus, increasing the level of employee involvement in modern competition is necessary to obtain various market advantages in the form of material and human resources.
The developed system is designed to increase the involvement and motivation of employees within the «Sibur-Khimprom» company. The company's recruiting managers are interested in obtaining a tool that will help increase employee motivation, will be
convenient for employees and managers, will meet security requirements and work with company server solutions. Existing solutions not only do not meet these requirements, but also do not provide the ability to record many people at many different events managed by a particular company.
Definition of Key Terms. Employee involvement is a conditions that motivates employees to do their job as best as possible. Employee engagement enhances customer satisfaction and establishes a positive relationship between employees and companies.
Delimitation of the study. In this paper, questions of employee involvement, application design, writing a mobile iOS application, and testing are discussed.
Professional Significance. In a theoretical environment, there is a lot of research about employee engagement, metrics and methods used to measure the assessment,increase the assessment. However, a single way to increase engagement has not yet been developed, and different companies use different approaches. One of the ways to increase employee engagement is to organize non-working events and incentives for participating
in these events: this work considers this particular mechanism of increasing engagement.
Problem Statement. The aim of the work is to develop an application to increase the involvement of «Sibur – Khimprom» employees. To achieve this aim, it is necessary to solve the following tasks:
1. Domain analysis. The collection and analysis of the requirements of the company representative, the analysis of literary sources were carried out. Metrics for assessing employee involvement, metrics for assessing the success of development have been generated; requirements for the application and application use cases have been prepared.
2. Designing an application architecture that meets all the requirements. Also at this stage of the work, the business processes introduced by the application to the company are described.
3. Application development according to the illustrated architecture for the iOS operating system, a description of the algorithms used, the implemented design patterns.
4. Testing the application, with a description of the technologies used for testing.
This work describes the development of a mobile application for the iOS operating system, and it is further assumed that the development of a server solution and a mobile application for the Android operating system are also developed as part of other works.
LITERATURE REVIEW
There are several themes available that will be reviewed. It is required to study the theory of employee engagement in order to understand how it can be re-evaluated and enhanced. It is also required that the user experience determine the sources of information necessary for building applications and developing applications. In addition to the theoretical foundations, it is need to study the features of programming mobile applications, including working with the Internet so that the application can work for the entire enterprise.
Employee Engagement. This area is quite widely studied over the past years. The beneficial effect of a high level of employee engagement is described in all the reviewed studies on the topic of employee engagement: these works show a positive growth effect on productivity and company value and reduction effect on staff turnover. The emphasis on the study of the positive impact of personnel involvement was made in, which detailes the mediating and deterrent role of professional identity in the
mechanism of employee engagement. In, special attention was paid to building a team-friendly relationship for the work, employee-manager relations, and the LMX (leader-member) relationship model. The studied works look at several methods of analysis of employee engagement in company, the main of which is questioning; the methods of assessment; metrics of different enterprises. In, methods for increasing
engagement are described as positive stresses (“challenges”), in , an increase in staff engagement through communication, expanding psychological capabilities, and other methods are. In the context of this work, a study is particularly interesting, because it explores ways to increase employee engagement.
User experience. This topic is also popular and extensively studied, including in the field of mobile applications of interest. This direction needs to be studied, since the positive feelings from the received product distributed by the enterprise will increase employee satisfaction with the work process. According to, there is no generally
accepted theory regarding User Experience. However, this work describes the understanding of the term User Experience and its components by designers, characterizes the role and importance of User Experience. In the same work, at a theoretical level, it is suggested what sensations the interface should leave for the user and what factors should be paid special attention to, the concept of the integrity of the user experience is given. A more technical description of what needs to be taken into account when designing user interfaces is given in , where article is interesting in the context of a review article on User Experience. The article describes the difficulties in measuring without direct feedback from users, reviews the existing studies regarding the measurement of user experience. The work illustrates the display order of the User Interface in accordance with the use of the provided functions, describes a model for improving user interaction by changing the flow of elements in accordance with user behavior through data collected from Usability testing. It should also be noted here that GOMS theory used to numerically measure the convenience of an interface because this method is used to select the best interface version.
Mobile development. It is required to study the features of designing and writing mobile applications: this is a young, but also were studied direction. Features of mobile development are described in detail in, which also characterizes that mobile devices are resource-limited systems with unusual input methods, device sizes, where it is necessary to pay attention to such characteristics as battery life. Another difference from desktop devices is the presence of a camera, microphone, map, the ability to make a call, the possible absence of rights to receive any information, such as photographs or location.
In , a five-stage development method was illustrated, including analysis, design, navigation design, page design, testing and implementation. The methodologies used in mobile development are detailed in, where considers Model-Driver Development, which is the “next level of UML usage,” and also provides a comprehensive analysis of MDD tools for mobile development. characterized System Development Methodologies and their effectiveness when applied in the development of mobile applications. considers the application of classical programming methodologies and
their combinations in mobile development, as well as focuses on the role of the choice of methodology in the life of a mobile application. In, architectures and patterns that are used in mobile development are described. focuses on errors and “Code Smells”, popular in iOS applications in Swift and Objective-C languages, and gives
recommendations on how to organize the code and on the details that you should pay attention to, which allow you to get rid of these errors. The work focuses on comparing platforms and platform description technologies.
Work with the network. The features of the operation of mobile applications are described in detail in, which characterizes the features of caching, data flow, and cloud computing. This work illustrates the changes that are occurring with Internet technologies in connection with the arrival of mobile devices on the market, as well as technologies
specific to mobile devices (cards, face recognition, voice recognition). The capabilities of cloud computing and computing by the devices themselves, the basic concept of cache consistency and cache levels are detailed. The concepts of delay requirements, specific interfaces for user expectation, mobility management, resources and architectural trade-offs, convergence are also given. Also in the context of modern Internet systems, work has been studied.
Thus, the theoretical environment for continuing work was studied and analyzed, so it allows to create a mobile application, which will receive the necessary data via the Internet, on the iOS platform to increase the level of employee involvement.
METHODS
To analyze the subject area, it is need to study not only the relevant literature, but also to study the needs and requirements of the company. The simplest and least demanding amount of knowledge about the subject area is interviewing.
In preparation for the interview, it is also required to conduct a review of the literature relevant to the topic of employee engagement. In accordance with the knowledge gained, it is necessary to draw up a plan for a semi-formal individual interview with a holder of top-level requirements, which will be a pilot study.
Further, the materials of the interview should be used for a detailed study of specific aspects of the subject area outlined by the requirements of the company, which will be limitations in the selection of specific literature. In the future, a follow-up interview should
be conducted with a stakeholder to approve the application development plan.
To design an application, it is essential to study the literature on suitable top-level architectural styles, where the limitation will be the area of development of mobile applications with the ability to easily test and scale while restraining the complexity of the project. Next, you need to study and select Apple Swift 5.0 frameworks that support these
architectural solutions, share responsibility between third-party code and personal code, and fix these solutions using UML diagrams. In the future, it is necessary to expand these diagrams by applying application level patterns from Gang of Four book. At the end of this stage of work, design the interface in accordance with the recommendations of the
literature on designing in the Apple ecosystem ("Apple Human Interface Guideline").
The development was carried out on the basis of the previously created architecture and selected third-party frameworks, using the MacOS operating system, IDE Xcode Version 11, for iOS 11+ operating systems in the language of Apple Swift 5.0.
Testing was carried out using standard IDE developer tools: unit testing, integration testing, UI testing. Use cases were used as test cases, the checklist is a requirements table.

ANTICIPATED RESULTS
As a result of work, they will receive a mobile application that meets:
1. the list of requirements in accordance with GOST 34.602-89;
2. the UML notation diagrams (class, sequence, activity);
3. the layouts of the interface.
As a result of the analysis of the subject area, the following documents will be
obtained:
1. a table listing the requirements of the customer, where each requirement meets the characteristics of the requirements in accordance with the requirements development standard ISO / IEC 29148;
2. usage scenarios in the form of a list and diagram UML Use Case;
3. technical task in accordance with GOST 34.602-89.
As a result of application design, you will also receive:
1. UML notation class diagram illustrating the high-level architecture of the application;
2. UML notation sequence diagram illustrating the operation of the application with receiving data on the Internet;
3. UML notation activity diagram illustrating usage scenarios according to different actors for entities such as event and reward.
As a result of testing, it will be described:
1. test plan (test scripts) according to IEEE 829;
2. the list of tools used and sufficient for testing.
CONCLUSION
Studies have shown that increasing employee engagement reduces layoffs, increases employee productivity, and increases company profits. Creating an application that is designed to increase engagement is thus of great practical importance for companies and can increase their financial performance.
From a theoretical point of view, in the course of development, development methods using mobile platforms were studied and deepened, recommendations for beginning developers were presented. This research and development can be continued, improving the application and expanding the number of companies that may be supported by the application; create a chat in which employees can conveniently communicate.
