Introduction
Background. Depression is a condition that is referred to by many as the Black Plague of the 21-th century. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the total number of people living with depression as of 2015 is 322 million or 4.4% of the global population. WHO describes this mental disorder: "Depression is a common mental disorder that presents with depressed mood, loss of interest or pleasure, decreased energy, feelings of guilt or low self-worth, disturbed sleep or appetite, and poor concentration. Moreover, depression often comes with symptoms of anxiety. These problems can become chronic or recurrent and lead to substantial impairments in an individual's ability to take care of his or her everyday responsibilities. At its worst, depression can lead to suicide." WHO gives an estimation that 788000 people have died due to suicide in 2015, while for every person who completes a suicide there were 20 attempts.
While WHO states that depression can be reliably diagnosed and treated in primary care, there are several problems preventing people from getting diagnosed, especially in Russia. First and foremost, there exists a widespread stigma around mental health, which came from the soviet times. People avoid seeking help from psychologists and psychiatrists in fear of radical means such as involuntary isolation. Secondly, there is a shortage of professionals capable of diagnosis and treatment of depression, while WHO estimates almost 8 million cases of depression in Russia in 2015. Finally, there are some problematic practices associated with the diagnosis of depression, such as Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). The hypothesis by academic supervisor states that many non-discrete factors form complex influences on development of depression which were not visible from correlations alone and thus were mistakenly removed from consideration.
Those problems could be solved via partial automatization of the diagnosing process. The problem of negative attitude to attending medical staff regarding mental health could be solved by having an anonymous way to perform pre-diagnosis process via the Internet. Such a process could be initiated either by patients themselves or automatically. While such an approach does not solve the negativity, it helps to combat the influence of stigma which hinders early prevention of depression. Also, such a process would negate some pressure on psychiatrists since there would not be a need for any manual global screenings. Finally, machine learning models such as neural networks could be used to explore complex relationships.
Problem Statement. The aim of this study is implementation of program system capable of assisting in diagnosis of depression. To achieve that, firstly, academic literature review must be conducted to point out some core factors in the development of depression. Secondly, data about subjects must be gathered. Thirdly, a machine learning model must be constructed, which would perform the classification task and would be used from exploration of academic supervisor's hypothesis. And finally, the program system, which would use constructed machine learning model, must be implemented.
Delimitations of the Study. This study will be focused on the use of Neural Networks to solve the problem of the diagnosis of depression. Neural Network is a very popular and capable machine learning model, which can pick up complex relations between factors.
Professional Significance. As a result of this study, it is expected that the system will be developed which should be able to assert several issues in the field of depression diagnosis and could be used by medical institutions.
Literature Review
While many major health organizations (e. g. US Preventive Services Task Force) give recommendations on the diagnosis of depression, the field of depression diagnosis is rapidly developing in recent years, which shows support to ideas from on importance of early detection of depression. In this review, several studies will be analyzed to pinpoint the significance of this project in the context of general psychiatry's point of view and from the point of usage of machine learning in this field of study.
The current state of the search for the sure way to diagnose depression illustrated in shows difficulties in objective depression diagnosis using biologicals markers. This paper provides an overview of the known biological reactions to depression. Many pieces of evidence are already known, which could be used in practice, but the conclusion of this study is that it is highly improbable that one biomarker would be found that could objectively measure the severity of the depression so new methods would incorporate several biomarkers to assert the state of the patients. That would potentially mean that early diagnosis of depression using biomarkers will become impractical since the complexity and costs of such a procedure will increase, which shows the importance of alternative ways to diagnose depression.
The modern take on the future direction of research on depression as shown in is that the focus should be put on learning mechanisms of anhedonia - diminished pleasure and/or decreased reactivity to pleasurable stimuli. Since this core feature of depression often persists after treatment, it shows our lack of understanding of this mental condition. Paper says that mayor breakthrough could be achieved by better understanding of causes and mechanisms of dysfunctional reward processing in depressed subjects. This fact could potentially be used when key factors of depression are going to be chosen on the later stage of this project.
While it is tempting to try and create some kind of mathematical model to solve the task of diagnosis of the depression, which is one of the objectives of this project in the form of the neural network, it might not be easily used to research causality and influence of different factors on models prediction. One of the recent articles [4] is aimed to determine whether depression causes obesity or those with obesity are prone to depression. It is shown that often those conditions influence each other: subject with obesity show weaker reaction to antidepressants and have worse overall outcome, while patients with depression might be prone to try and replace the income of endorphins with excessive amounts of food and skip most physical activities. However, many researchers suggest that their relationship has multi-factor structure. Thus, the usage of machine learning in this project is justified by complexity of relationships in this field of study.
One of the ways to achieve effective screenings on depression is to implement a mechanism of analyzing the working of the brain using electroencephalogram (EEG) signals since brain activity is mostly electrical. As EEG signals are difficult to interpret, key feature extraction is almost unavailable. Thus, researchers used often non-linear models to perform diagnosis. The recent review of EEG-based shows incredible results on this task using EEG signals. Reviewed studies claim accuracy ranging from 90% up to 99.5%. Most of the highest performing studies use some variations of classical neural networks. For example, which claims the 99.5% accuracy, uses probabilistic neural networks to perform a depression diagnosis support. Several conclusions could be drawn for this project. Firstly, the trend of the neural network's usage reinforces the chosen delimitation of this study. Secondly, while EEG signals could give such precise results, their usage is much more limited in Russia due to the scarcity of EEG tech in the hospitals.
Another recent study looks for a connection between depression and suicidal ideation using a similar approach, but with much more emphasis on temporal correlations. The used data is compiled using electronic health records (EHR) and a questionnaire of 9 multiple-choice questions to assess the frequency of depressive symptoms and suicide ideation within 610 chronic depression treatment patients. The EHR data was interpolated to match the frequency of questionnaire data using Gaussian process regression, cross-correlations were estimated and artificial neural network (ANN) was built to discover subtypes of depression patterns. The results of the study show strong temporal correlations between depression symptoms and suicide intent, which probably indicates a very powerful link, which is going to be taken in consideration when the key factors of development of the depression are going to be compiled for this project. Also said subtypes of depression patterns were successfully discovered which shows potential in the usage of ANN in the research in the field of mental conditions.
The hypothesis, presented by academic advisor, was already in works. In paper the possibility of non-linear is being explored for factors such as gender, age, education, income, marital status, height weight and some general life situational questions. To gather data, people from social networks completed questionnaire with questions on said factors and questions from BDI to mark depression levels of subjects. Gathered data was used to construct an ANN with error rate of 32,3%. Resulting ANN put most emphasis on age and weight of subjects, which is the core of the hypothesis. In this project similar factors, data and methods are going to be used. However, it is expected that dataset used in this project will have more representatives of different age categories and thus give more precise ANN.
Methods
Several methods will be used to achieve the objectives of this study. To pinpoint key factors of development of the depression literature review will be used. It is a necessary step to ensure at least some level of causality between the data about the subjects and the depression levels. To gather said data questionnaire will be employed since information about real subjects of the depression is not freely available because of confidentiality laws and such method could give a bigger number of entries than interview or others. To evaluate the level of depression of the subjects, the questionnaire, similar to one used in, that will contain not only questions about key factors of the development of the depression but also questions from the depression test which gives a concrete score.
To solve the diagnosis task, ANN will be used. This type of machine learning models was chosen because it supports non-linear relationships, relatively easy to use and it is used by many researchers.
To implement the system, it first will be described by diagrams. Several methods will be used to describe the future system. To plan the exact functionality of the future program system, use case diagrams will be used since it is a very visual way to represent its capabilities. Data that will be collected and used by this system will be described by class diagram since it does a great job at describing information objects and relationships between them. The actual implementation will use Python language since it is a widespread tool used by many machine learning specialists. To develop ANN library PyTorch will be used since it is very popular and we have some experience with it, same with the usage of Flask library to develop web server.
Results Anticipated
Several intermediate results will be produced by this study. The first result of this study would be a compilation of key factors in the development of the depression made by literature review and the data on subjects containing said key factors and an evaluation of depression level. Also, this study will produce a neural network capable of depression diagnosis to some degree, which will be explored to provide evidence for or against academic advisor's hypothesis.
The main result of this study would be a web-based system, capable of several tasks, related to the diagnosis of the depression. The main task of the said system will be to give an evaluation of the depression levels to the subject. The said capability will be available to users, patients and doctors, in the form of the webpage and it also will be available to other systems via REST API. This system would be capable of optimizing its performance based on the feedback from its users. Also, while this system will contain an out-of-the-box solution in the form of a neural network, it will be able to help researchers on the depression by granting capabilities to add new subject data with given and/or new key factors, to access subject data filtered by given key factors to create new machine learning models and even create neural networks inside our system, which diagnostic capabilities will also be available via web-page or REST API. Said system will be described by use case diagram and class diagram. Additional documents are also going to be developed, such as user manual. 
Conclusion
The scientific importance of this project is to promote an idea that modern technics such as machine learning could be used to develop better diagnosis practices and theoretically some new insights on causes of depression, gathered from developed ANN.
The practical importance is in the future system, that could be used to assist in the diagnosis of depression and to create new machine learning models for this task. 
Also, this project has significant educational importance as during its development not only several core techniques for software engineer will be used but also some data science qualifications such as data gathering and ANN creation.
This project will also have many prospects. Firstly, the quality of the gathered data could be improved by the usage of the real patient's data and its quantity could be increased. Secondly, the choice of key factors could probably be always optimized. Those could easily be realized by the active usage of the future system. Finally, the whole system could be extended to incorporate not only depression but also many other, mental or not, illnesses.
