Introduction
At the present day automation is one the major ways of maximizing work productivity, optimizing processes and improving quality of final product. Auto regulated methods release human from participating in processes of obtaining, transferring and processing information particularly or completely. Due to this reason, in last decade, there is a tremendously strong tendency in application development in all possible spheres. People prefer to use new technology and internet particularly, because it helps them to reduce time costs and financial expenses and make their business more convenient. Auction trade business try to use these technologies too. This situation is described in detail in the book “Dynamic Spectrum Auction in Wireless Communication” by Chen Yanjiao, Zhang Qian. Argoneto Pierluigi, Renna Paolo in their work “Innovative Tools for Business Coalitions in B2B Applications” study auction trade as a mechanism of eBusiness and B2B application. By summarizing these books, it can be argued that auction trade is exposed to automation.
Auction is basically a mechanism for distributing and pricing scare resources under uncertain circumstances. In the auction market, the seller does not know how great demand is for the product, therefore, he assemble the buyers to complete with one another in order to sell the product at the most desirable price. As a result, the best situation in which to use auctions is when there is no direct and objective standard for the value of the product. Traditionally it is the sellers, who have the right to decide product price, however, after the emergence of auction, consumers also have this right. Thus, the price becomes increasingly flexible.
Auctions are attractive for buyers because they can buy goods by reduced prices, and for sellers, because they have less time inventory turnover, they get full information about the demand for their goods. Moreover, auction give sellers a chance to gain access to new markets. Auctions trade are usually used for sale, not the finder demand goods and various sub-standard products, products with impaired trade dress and products returned by customers. In addition, auction sale is the main form of artworks and antiques realization and for sale innovation technologies. Auction trade is also used by small companies, corporations and even by the government of Russia for organizing tenders. For example in the Asia Pacific market, where business focus on B2C segment, small retailers who initially explore auctions as an additional channel are gradually moving their businesses to auction trade as write Jyh-Shen Chiou and Yi-Ping Sung in their article “Buyer Satisfaction and Loyalty Intention in an Online Auction”.
K. W. Chau, S. K. Wong, C. Y. Yiu, Maurice K. S. Tse and Frederik I. H. Pretorius describe how auction market replace the current trade systems on example of journal articles market. They show that in growing number of different articles, the need to reform the growing pressure from different sources suggests the new market system, and the auction bidding system is the best way for it. This system solve the problem of publishing. More over the authors of article “Do Unexpected Land Auction Outcomes Bring New Information to the Real Estate Market?” show the situation of sale land in form of public auctions.
Moreover, auction trade used not only for selling and for buying possesses. It can be used as analysis tool and as a mechanism for determining demand. As an example, J.Philipp Reib told that auction trade is the mechanism for analyzing the buyer behavior and plays a fundamental role in many analyses of Internet performance. All this shows that auction trade ubiquitously grow up and used in different aspects of live.
Problem statement
Auction trade is commonly used in different markets. One of them is rental market. Today sellers prefer to find tenants with the help of auction mechanism. It helps them to estimate demand for property, to get a better rental rate, to find a conscientious tenant, which are interested in their property and of course to make fair competition. This type of auctions is strictly regulated by Russian government. The special rules of the auction are contained in order number 16386 and controlled by Federal Antimonopoly Service. 
The demand of auction is growing but there is no such specific and convenient information system. The purpose of this study is to develop information system of rental property auction and to automate it’s mechanisms. The bidding mechanism is special and hard to count by hand so information system should automate this process firstly. Such information system will help to conduct auction biddings, which allow to reduce costs and time of it organization and therefore simplify the auction. Moreover, this system will display the proses of auction trade and make information available for all participants. 
Objectives and Aims
The aim of this research is to develop auction information system, which will help to organize auction and automate the proses of auction trade.
In order to reach the goal it is required to perform the following tasks. At the first steps, it is necessary to analyze the business proses of auction trade and rental auction trade in detail. Moreover, it is important to study the process of counting rates in rental auction develop requirements for the information system. In order to create the auction information system, a database should be developed. This database should contains all specific information, which is required for normal system performance. The other step is to design a web page with the help of HTML language. This web page is a user interface and allows users to interact with the system. In the following step, the C# algorithm, that reflects auction trade process, should be designed.
Methods
In order to achieve the aim of this study, it is necessary to consistently perform every stated objective.
Currently, auctions became very popular nowadays. These auctions are used not only to sale goods but also by Russian government for organization of tender’s deals. People use special systems to participate in the auctions but there is no a unique system, which will carry out the exchange of information between buyers and sellers.
During architecture discussion, two main criteria were marked. Firstly, it is essentially should be client-server architecture, due the future possibility to implement module automatically determining the user, who run the system and the auction, which will be interesting for him. Secondly, system should be cross-platform, so any modern types of device will fits it.
In pursuit of these requirements, web technology was found. MVC web application satisfies both these criteria. ASP.NET MVC open source framework provides greatly improved separation of concerns. Also ASP.NET MVC–generated pages can be hundreds of kilobytes smaller than typical pages from ASP.NET Web Forms. The MVC architecture gives you a great start in making your application maintainable, testable and extensible. Additionally it has built-in tools to work with SQL database, design instruments to create html pages, Visual Studio editor with IntelliSense and lot of capabilities that ease application development including several supported programming languages as C#, HTML, XML, etc.
Predicted results
Analyzing the business process of rental auction trade, which allow to develop system requirements. As a result of this study, a web auction information system should be developed and launched in alpha mode. This will allow to reduce the costs and time of auction trade. Moreover, this information system allow to organize auctions easily. The database, program algorithm and web page will be design and tested. In addition, program performance and usability of interface will be estimated.
Strengths and Limitations
In this section some major strength and limitations are considered.
The main strength of the study is related to the small amount of proposals on the market in this sphere of activity. Rental auction trade became very popular nowadays. The number of potential customers is growing constantly but the IT-developments, which somehow connected with rental auction, are not enough.
According to the antimonopoly service order number 67 from the 10th of February, two major limitations can be identified. The main limitation is closely connected with the license i.e. it is necessary to obtain a state license to run an auction information system. 
Another kind of limitations is related to specific bidding system. The most important part of auction information system is auction bidding system and rate change. This information system have a strict rules, for example, every biding step should be changed by 0,5 presents upper or lower the last bidding price. And of course the bidding price will change only after no more who want to buy lot at a given price.
Conclusion
This paper uncovers development of electronic information system which allows simplifying business process of auction sale. This information system realizes all the functions conferred upon it. This study has shown that in general, the objectives have been achieved, the aim is accomplished. Developed system saves time and costs but it is still an alpha prototype with massive number of shortcomings. In future, these weaknesses will be fixed and system improvements with updates installed, also the system can be expanded by adding other types of auction trade in it and automate the process of auction organization. Analyzing the above, it can be stated that this auction Information system can be easily upgraded 
      
