Introduction
Nowadays, the development of banking system plays a key role in maintaining the stability of the entire country’s economy. It depends on many factors: internal and external. The first are intellectual capital and the organizational culture of the bank and the last involves a variety of unforeseen situations, the state of the world economy and political and financial situation, for example the global financial crisis of 2008-2009.
Due to the fact that the activity of commercial banks is regulated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, which establishes the different standards for mandatory implementation by all the banks, the role of management is becoming more significant. During the economic downturn worsening of macroeconomic indicators occurs and as a consequence population trust banks in a less degree. Therefore, there is outflow of deposits and a strong increase of the amount of arrears. When the bank has troubled assets, it suffers losses. According to statistics of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation, the amount of overdue debts is rising rapidly every year. It is important to note that since the last 8 years this figure has increased by almost 20 times. 
In practice, the process of settlement the troubled asset can be delayed for several years. The bank and a debtor probably want to cope with this situation in the most profitable way, but the question of how many months will be taken to resolve the debt remains open. There are no researches examining the settlement period, in that up to now recent studies have been based on observations of factors affecting the reimbursement. Current researches grasp differing perspectives about the reasons of company’s default, the motivation of people do not extinguish debts. For instance, some researchers believe that people are not able to pay for their debts because of financial situation. Others suppose that companies specially delay payments in order to cope with other its problems. As it has been mentioned earlier there are so many studies presenting the instability of banking system due to arrears and the reasons of debts. This paper deals with factors that can reduce or increase the settlement period. For this reason, the research question is what factors affect the settlement period of troubled assets?
In order to meet the research question, a series of tasks should be examined:
considering the concept of bad debts;
examining ways of settlement troubled assets;
familiarizing with the concept of the settlement period of defaulted borrowers;
investigating factors which influence the settlement period of troubled 
assets;
formulating research question and hypotheses of the study;
describing key variables and research methodology;
introducing preliminary results and limitations of the research.
The research consists 5 parts: introduction describing the main idea of study, theoretical background examining all concepts of investigation, methodology that considers data, key variables and the model, predicted outcomes and limitations.

Theoretical background
The concept of troubled assets and its causes
Troubled assets are known to be past-due debts of natural or non-natural person. Many economists have been studying companies’ loan arrears, because in most cases they are subject to the instability of the economy or the financial problems within the company. Alfandari supported that there are three types of debtors. The first type includes people who simply do not make timely payments, but still pay their debts. Thus companies delay payments in order to protect themselves against various financial problems existing in the company. They create reserves in order to pay off the losses in the future. Companies believe that it is better to pay the debt later, as the costs related to late payment are less than expenditures required for alternative sources of funding. Another type of debtors includes companies that have no financial capability and are unable to return money to the bank, at least in the short term. However, if non-natural person does not return money more than two months, the probability of loan servicing is very low. Alfandari also identified the third type of debtors who behave opportunistically. It is a company that believes if all borrowers do not pay debts, the state will «save» all of them. 
Over the last 8 years there has been a huge increase in overdue debts, approximately by 20 times. On the one hand it is due to the global financial crisis of 2008-2009, on the other hand it is because of the credit risk associated with bank loan. Credit analysis means the risk management that bank used to. It is important to assess risk during granting the loan. There is another concept – credit risk, which means the risk associated with the violation of the loan agreement, with the probability of default. In some way credit risk is the most important type of risk, because it has some implications. If a bank does not predict and does not assess various risks, the probability of losses will rise. 
In addition to assessing credit risk, a bank usually calculates the probability of borrower’s default. If a customer is not able or is not willing to repay the loan, a bank will deal with late payment. The probability of default is influenced by many factors: political, social, economic and so on. For example, Citron and Nikelsburg in their study found out that customer’s default depends on the political instability in the country. They measured it as proxy index – the number of changes in the government during the last 5 years. There is another idea of researcher – D. Lopez. He supposed that large firms are less prone to default than smaller ones. Moulton and Collins announced that it is important to assess the default risk if a person take mortgage because the probability of delinquency big loan payments is high. Consequently, it confirms the need to assess the probability of outstanding loan, because loss given default is high.  
It is clear that all banks monitor the financial performance of its clients. On the one hand, different financial indicators reflect the efficiency of enterprises and it’s probability of making payments. For this reason, reduction of some figures reflects shows that company has financial distress. Smolenskaya in her research exemplified firms that have a decrease of the return on assets showing the impact of the use of existing assets and its liquidity. On the other hand, if a client stops strongly contact with a bank and ignores phone calls and meetings, the probability of making payments will decrease. Thus, this asset also becomes troubled. In such a manner, a lot of reasons can be an indicator of capability non-repayment debts to the bank. It is therefore necessary to monitor the whole process in order to avoid upraising of troubled assets. 
Sberbank mounted yellow, red and black area of the troubled assets. Of course, a customer can get to any area. Clients with a delay to 30 days are in the yellow area. Bank has to establish contact with them, to find out what is the reason for their delay and try to resolve situation prior to entering client the next area. Clients with a delay from 30 to 90 days belong to the red area. Bank is also trying to contact with these customers and get payments as soon as possible. Clients, in turn, are required to pay fines for late payment. Finally, the last area, black, belongs to customers with a delay more than 90 days. This area is the worst, because there is no chance of repayment. In this research clients with a delay more than 30 days will be discussed. 
The settlement tools of troubled assets
Each bank tries to minimize risks associated with the probability of occurrence of arrears. However, if a customer does not pay debt, a bank will get money back by all means. Currently, there are various tools of settlement. Basically, there are 2 ways: soft collection, in other words, without the involvement of a court and legal collection, that is with the participation of a court. Of course, the first is much more effective because it requires less time. Soft collection includes phone calls, installment debt, loan restructuring and voluntary disposal of the property. Receivables assignment, settlement agreement, enforcement proceeding and bankruptcy are legal collection. 
The variable as the settlement tool of troubled asset will be used in the model, however the data presents only two way of the settlement: bankruptcy and enforcement proceeding. According to the Federal Law of the Russion Federation non-natural person confesses to a bankrupt by the decision of the arbitral court if it cannot meet obligations to creditors within 3 months. There are 4 bankruptcy proceedings: observation, financial rehabilitation or external administration and the settlement agreement.
The next is enforcement proceeding. It is the stage of the civil procedure that can be accompanied by force or voluntarily. During this procedure the competent authorities make the execution of acts of courts of general jurisdiction. There are three stages. The first is instituting enforcement proceedings: bailiff and executor of justice set or refuse enforcement proceedings according to the presence or absence of reasons. The second stage consists in the suspension of enforcement procedures indefinitely. The last stage is the completion of the enforcement proceedings. The causes of its termination are the death of the debtor or the loss of ability of document execution.
There is one factor that can help banks to choose the settlement tool – recovery rate. It is the degree of renewal in case of default. The more the recovery rate, the preferred the settlement tool is. Fortunately, Sberbank has automated tools that allow them to take into account the recovery rate. From this perspective, there are various ways to deal with the troubled asset. In different situations, some tools can be profitable and some can be unbeneficial to the bank. The tools are able to change the settlement period, and it is important to study it to find a relationship between them.
The settlement period of troubled assets
The settlement period of troubled asset is the time taking to get rid of arrears. The troubled asset is considered regulated when it is charged-off, in other words, with contract closure. The main criteria for the effectiveness of the settlement of asset is the minimum number of procedures required to settle the debt and getting the maximum amount of money from borrower. Naturally, there are many factors that influence the settlement period. One of them is characteristic of the borrower, its relationship with the bank, solvency that is willingness to cooperate with the bank and work towards a common goal. Many bank officials believe that one of the problems related to the debt collection is the aggression of borrower. Consequently, in most cases, the process of the settlement of troubled assets is a complex process requiring time and patience bank’s officials. After all, every day they deal with person in arrears, who is not able to repay the debt and simply want to «make off with the money». Another factor, that is more important, is the liquidity of the collateral. If it is in good condition, the bank can sell it and return money. Unfortunately, currently the data does not have information about these variables, although they are most important for bank. 
Currently, the settlement period of troubled assets can be less than a year, a year, two years or even more. Needless to say, the time required for allowances of assets varies depending on a lot of factors. The next section of this paper will describe in more details a model of study, factors which would be included in it and method that would be used for analyzing. 

Methodology and procedure
It is important to introduce the research question that is identifying factors affecting the settlement period of troubled assets. In order to approach the research question the data of regulated troubled assets was provided by the Public Joint Stock Company Sberbank and will be used for constructing a model. This data includes 140 clients, which were accommodated with loans from 2004 to 2012. They owed to the bank from 2004 until 2014. Clients are legal entitles – namely, self-employed entrepreneur or limited liability company, whose activity is, mainly, merchandising, construction, manufacturing and oil refining industries. The sample includes different modes of lending: revolving and non-revolving lines of credit and framework facility. It ought to be noted that customers took out loans for various purposes: working capital financing, payments to contractors, purchasing goods and investment. As it has been mentioned in theoretical background clients who got into red and black areas of the troubled assets will be investigated. It should be pointed out that all legal entitles that are presented in the data have been charged-off from 2008 to 2016. Sberbank used two settlement tools of the troubled assets: enforcement proceedings and bankruptcy. 
As it has been mentioned earlier the research question suggests identifying factors influences the settlement period of troubled assets. That is why the regression dependence would be built. However, this question is not well developed in previous studies but the regression is likely to assess the impact of new different factors, which will be described later. The data is cross-sectional because it presents observations, which have been made at the same time of the moment. 
It is desirable to describe variables that would be used in the research. The settlement period of troubled asset, the time required to return the debt, is a dependent variable. This indicator is expressed in whole numbers, in months. According to the data the settlement period is unsteady. The minimum figure is 4 months and the maximum - 60 months. However, for the reason that this indicator takes up only integer values, it is going to be schemed integral-valued regression. Independent variables are presented in the model except for the dependent variable. Currently, the settlement period may be 10 months, 20 months or even more. There are a lot of factors that can influences this indicator. The data includes so many variables, which can be included in the model. The table 1 demonstrates all these factors.
In such a manner, it is indispensably to introduce an economic model of the research. As a matter of convenience, the independent variables can be combined in some groups. The first group describes personal characteristics of borrowers, such as the year of theirs birthday and the district where borrowers live. The second group has loan profile, for example a year of loan granting, lending amount, mode of lending, interest rate, life of the loan and the presence of collateral. The third group is firm characteristics. It includes type of ownership, company sector and loan purpose. Finally, the last group describes arrear, for instance loan principal and balance of credit and the settlement tool of troubled asset. As a result, the economic model is as follows (equation 1):
(1)
Settlement_per=f(personal characteristics of a borrower, loan profile, firm characteristics, 
characteristics of the arrear)These variables are depended up factors presented in equation 2,3,4,5:
(2)
Personal characteristics of a borrower=f(birthday, address)(3)
Loan profile=f(loan_granting, lend, contract, interest_rate, credit_term, collateral)(4)
Firm characteristics=f(type_ownership, field, purpose)(5)
Characteristics of the arrear=f(debt, loan_balance, process)Before going to the description of estimating method it is important to represent a preliminary set of hypothesis and questions. The first hypothesis is:
1) The settlement period of troubled asset is greater if the debtor is self-employed entrepreneur.
It is fair to assume that self-employed entrepreneur cannot cope with difficult situations, such as crisis, and can run into a debt. However, there is no recent researches confirming this point of view, thus it is interesting to observe.
The second hypothesis is:
2) The larger the loan, the greater the settlement period.
It stands to reason that a huge amount of loan requests more time for settlement, because if a company take on a vast amount of money, the probability of full money back is usually low. However, it is also necessarily to develop.
The third hypothesis is:
3) The younger the borrower, the greater the likelihood of it’s default.
It can be assumed that young borrowers can take risks and incur debts. At the same time they undertake obligations to pay off. However, where is the probability that they will be capable of paying back loans? 
The preliminary question is: 
4) What loan purpose is increasingly exposed to default?  
It may be that some purposes are supposed to be urgent, for example, payments to contractors. The company has no money to pay for something to business partners and take on a loan. However, this company is unlikely to have money in the future. That’s why this question must be borne in mind.
In order to answer the last question and confirm or reject hypothesis there would be done preliminary analysis of data, for instance, investigation of descriptive statistics, coefficients of variation, the revision of data coherence and using of outlier tests. There would be also built correlation between the dependent and independent variables for finding relationships and correlations between all independent variables to except multicollinearity. 
Consequently, after the preliminary analysis of data the regression should be presented (equation 6). Consequently, this regression should be estimated with the least square method. It is the mathematical method used to solve various tasks, based on minimizing the sum of squares. This method gives coefficients proceeding variables. It is also important to measure the quality of the model; the 5 Gauss-Markov conditions should be fulfilled. Thus, the estimated coefficients would be linear, unbiased, consistent and effective and would have normal distributions. For this reason the results could be reliable and correct. The next section of this paper will provide predicted outcomes and limitations of research. 

Predicted outcomes
It should be noted that all hypotheses could be verified. However, at the moment it is impossible to predict verification or rejection. Hopefully, it would be great to create a rich picture of the troubled assets and complement earlier academic literature with these results. Outcomes that would be drawn from data could be used as a basis for Sberbank. It could understand what factors affecting the settlement period of arrears and could use it as the calculator for estimating the settlement period of troubled asset. 

Limitations of research
The limitations of investigation are caused by the lack of previous studies. It is impossible to compare results with recent findings. This research partially assesses banking system, rather only past due debts. It is also important to say that the data includes only Sberbank’s figures. For this reason, results could not be used in other bank’s activities, because they could be different. Due to the lack of data some factors were not included in the model, such as the liquidity of collateral, some characteristics of firms and borrowers. Therefore, all unrecorded variables fall into error of model. Imperfect information complicates the problem, as it is impossible to fully believe all results.
After measuring the quality of model, the 5 Gauss-Markov conditions should be fulfilled. The estimated coefficients should be linear, unbiased, consistent and effective and have normal distributions. Otherwise, coefficients could be insufficient, and it is usually so. This suggests that it is also impossible to totally trust all results. 
This model could be improved by including some additional variables, for instance the liquidity of collateral, the size of companies, financial performance of companies and other characteristics of legal entitles.