Introduction
Banking system is one of the most important instruments in the market economy of any developed or developing country. Therefore, its operating stability is an integral part of government affairs. The development success in this sector is the existence of trust between banking agents. That is why an essential task of banks is to ensure confidence for clients who use their services. If confidence in banking sector decreases it will lead to reduction of the loan-deposit volume of physical and legal entities as well as to the impossibility of rational redistribution of financial resources in the financial sector. This, in turn, has a negative reflection on the state of the overall economy. Hence, in order to avoid these consequences it is extremely important to predict the financial condition of banks to identify prone to default ones prior to revocation of their license.
In the last decade assessing soundness of banks are attracting more and more attention because investigations in this area have a huge practical application for financial market agents. The models estimating the probability of bank failures are claimed by three main financial participants: The Central Bank, commercial banks and their clients. The Central Bank exercises control over activities of commercial banks and probabilistic models allow supervisors to identify in advance the problems associated with the risk of bank insolvency and bankruptcy. Due to this fact the CB will timely assist vulnerable credit institution in its financial recovery. For commercial banks it is a good opportunity to obtain an independent evaluation of their stability. These empirical results will be defining for building effective strategy based on existing risks. Information about the probability of credit organizations defaults can significantly influence on bank customer’s choice in implementation of certain financial investments. 
Thus, the research questions of my final qualifying work are: 
a) How to predict bank defaults?
b) What indicators can help to predict revocation of license in banking sector? 
To answer these questions, the following tasks are employed:
1) To review the existing works on the subject, identify the main trends and analyze fundamental models used in papers.
2) According to previous studies to identify factors that influence on the probability of bank failures. Collect data about factors characterizing the financial stability of banks.
3) To advance a hypothesis about impact of financial indicators and define sampling criteria of banks.
4) To build an econometric model, selecting an appropriate method.
5) To assess the quality of the constructed model, check out the significance of regression coefficients and test its predictive properties.
6) To interpret the results and draw a conclusion in their compliance with previous researches.
7) To discuss limitations of the model and the prospects for further research.
The structure of the present paper corresponds to the tasks. The first part provides an overview of major studies in assessing the probability of revocation license in banking sector. The second part is devoted to the construction of probabilistic and statistical model, its economic interpretation and evidence of its ability to forecast banks’ financial conditions.
     
Theoretical background
A considerable amount of valuable work on forecast of banks failure has been made to improve bank system. However, this problem still remains controversial and unsolved. Scientists of the past and our contemporaries argue about the choice of approach, methodology and variables. Therefore in order to make strong cases for one of the existing method it is necessary to analyze relating literature on this topic.
At the moment, there are several approaches to the statistical modeling of the bank's bankruptcy probability based on public information. Firstly, a research can use bank ratings made by rating agencies.  A statistical model builds for assessments obtained at the agency and reflects information relying on its estimation (results). This idea has been proposed for the analysis of Russian banks (Soest et al, 2003) and for non-financial American firms (Altman and Rijken, 2004). Another concept involves an expert survey. Professionals are asked to evaluate a number of real and virtual banks solely on the numerical information on the performance of their balance sheets (Soest et al, 2003). Third, a statistical model of bank risk, stability and trust can be received with the use of historical data about bank defaults (Peresetsky, 2011). 
Despite the fact that all variants are often used in practice, they aren’t devoid of some shortcomings. The main drawback of the first approach is influence on the human factor. When banks pay ratings agencies for their participation in the ranking, it could potentially lead to a situation where the rating agencies reluctantly give a low rating for their customers. On the other hand, the experts of the rating agency are likely to have extended information about the banks participating in the rating compared with experts who analyze data from the bank’s balance sheets. However, the second approach takes into account the opinion of several economists from different financial institutions. The third concept isn’t dependent on human judgments and this fact is its undeniable advantage.
For a long time researchers addressed the question of what empirical method is the best.  Martin’s method has had a fundamental effect over this problem (Martin, 1977).  He was the first scientist who used binary choice model (logit) for the prediction of bank defaults in the US. His research has gained a great number of followers because this model gives not only a binary answer to the question about banks failure but also provides an assessment of financial indicators. Moreover, this method allows creating nonlinear relationships between the variables. However, the model has an assumption of normality which is difficult to observe.
The alternative method offers a window into the complex nature of decision trees. According to Breiman, his CART model (Classification and Regression Tree) has become a fundamental drive towards this field of study (Breiman, 1984). His method is based on constructing a binary decision tree, and an assessment is carried out on the idea of reducing uncertainty at each node of the tree. Nonparametric model RPA (The Recursive Partitioning Algorithm) by Cronan has deepened and pushed forward the idea of his predecessor. The punch line of this approach is undoubtedly that each node is associated with a single model. To assess whether splitting of the node is necessary, a fluctuation test for parameter instability is performed.
Decision tree analysis has a number of advantages over other classification methods, including logistic regression. First, it is inherently non-parametric. In other words, no assumptions are made regarding the initial distribution of values of the predictor variables. Furthermore, it requires little data preparation. Other techniques often require data normalization. Since trees can handle qualitative predictors, there is no need to create dummy variables. However, despite the fact that this idea is innovative and progressive it has some limitations. Trees can be very non-robust. A small change in the training data can result in a big change in the tree, and thus a big change in final predictions. Also results can be difficult interpretable, this, in turn, makes them useless for practical purposes.
The next exceedingly important step is a choice of independent variables. Scientists have different views on factors affecting bank’s license revocation. The main financial indicators evaluating bank’s financial stability are considered to be the size of its assets and its capitalization. (Ïåðåñåöêèé, 2013). According to Peresetsky, the best effect of using bank size measurement can be achieved by taking the logarithm of the variable total assets. The same idea has also been introduced in a number of key studies (Martin, 1977), (Kolari et al, 2002) (Estrella et al, 2000). Following Heba, the main financial indicator is a factor reflecting the capital adequacy (Heba Abou-El-Sood, 2015). The capital adequacy ratio characterizes the bank's liquidity and its economic activity.
Significant position in the estimating probability of license revocation in banking sector also takes macroeconomic indicators. For example, Mannasoo suggests that the GDP is one of the fundamental parameters in predicting bank failures (Mannasoo et al, 2009). Scientists revealed direct relation between GDP and bank defaults. Other researchers emphasize an importance of factors such as real income, industrial production, the foreign trade situation which have an impact on the banks stability.
The third way is based on a combination of micro- and macroeconomic indicators. Authors holding this idea insist on analysis of different factors. They claim it allows having more precise results since control variables take into account not only internal changes in the bank, depending on its activity but also external changes that occur in the economic environment and have a direct impact on decisions taken by the bank. A striking example of this method can be found in Clare’s research (Clare et al, 2002). His empirical results shows that capital adequacy, asset quality, management, profitability and liquidity, as well as economic conditions, estimated using GDP growth rate, inflation and real interest rates reduce the probability of defaults in the East Asian banks.  Following this work an article written by Calabrese appears and refutes available results. He revealed that macroeconomic variables are significant in the model only if license revocation is due to a merger or acquisition of the bank by other companies.
Numerous studies show that the use of logit approach is the most common and convenient method for modeling the likelihood of bank defaults. Despite the emergence of new alternative methods, which have their own dignities, the research made by A. Karminsky showed that panel data, neural networks and other methods does not lead to a substantial improvement in the estimation of banks probability. In addition, during the analysis of the previous literature it was formed an exemplary set of financial performance which is required to create control variables. Among potential predictors it is paid attention to indicators that determine the bank's liquidity, profitability, asset size and the adequacy of its capital. Moreover, my work doesn’t take into account the influence of macroeconomic factors as their effect is controversial and depends on reasons of license revocation. 

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the method used in carrying out the study and focus attention to analysis of collected data. Based on previous studies it was noticed an astonishingly broad contemporary consensus on the choice of a model which is appropriate for the estimation of license revocation in banking sector. Majority of scientists use logit model and it is considered to be one of the best model for this purpose. Therefore this investigation will follow existing experience and I aim to apply the same approach to it. Logit model will be estimated using statistical software package STATA.
It is well-known there are dozens of reasons why banks lose their licenses. To specify the criteria for selection of credit organizations included in the sample I refer to Federal Law “On Insolvency of Credit Institutions”. It says that «a credit institution shall be deemed unable to satisfy creditors' claims with respect to monetary obligations and/or to meet an obligation to make mandatory payments if it failed to meet the corresponding obligations within one month from their due date»1. Using information provided on the official website of the Central Bank I carried out thorough screening of banks lost their licenses due to failure of these decrees. According to the imposed restrictions the sample is included 951 Russian banks: 776 – operating banks, 175 – failed banks.
Analyzed previous works selection of financial indicators influencing the probability of banks’ failure was based on the use of CAMEL methodology. This ranking system has a worldwide reputation and is an effective instrument of banking supervision. Furthermore, this method is popular among Russian economists for two main reasons: firstly, it provides a comprehensive assessment of banks activities and secondly, it is easy to understand as it applies simple mathematical tool. It contains six basic criteria for evaluation of banks reliability: C – capital adequacy, A – asset quality, M – management, E – earnings, L – liquidity, S – sensitivity to risk. 

Predicted outcome
Results anticipated are intended to reveal the factors that increase the probability of license revocation. I also hope to create a model that could predict the likelihood of bank’s failure to prevent its occurrence. 
In future it will be possible to apply my results for analyzing financial positions of banks and building their strategies. Conclusions and hypotheses drawn from my work may be used as a basis for further research.

Limitations
The result can be attributed to a range of factors. Firstly, there is a danger to omit potentially significant variables. Since the set of them was formed based on the CAMELS method, there can be some unrecorded indicators which may have an effect on the probability of revocation license in banking sector. Another problem is lack of information on various banking indicators, data is either missing or does not exist entirely. Furthermore, banks included in the sample vary in capital, set of banking services and a territory of activities. The unpleasant consequence of this fact is the presence of heterogeneity.