Introduction
The hospitality business is known as the most rapidly developing industry in economic sphere of people life. As an industry of economic sphere the hospitality services, provided by country, bring they the possibility of obtaining funds called influx.
Until recently, we can see the situation when economic sanctions deprived the citizens of Russia to visit some countries such as Egypt, Turkey and some other popular tourist resorts. According to experts, that situation can contribute to the development of tourism in our country. Numerous attempts have been made to provide a solid basis to the research. A great number of researchers examined such areas and concluded that the price of hotel services can have the greatest impact on the development of domestic tourism destination in Russia. That is why this area of research is relevant in terms of the improvement of hotel services pricing strategy in order to develop the country domestic tourism.
The number of proposals put forward by the various hotels of course depends on demand put forward by consumers. Thus the competition is very high and hotel managers in order to get some part of all market should offer to consumers some specific attributes which can attract more people in their hotels. 
Today there is the common knowledge that the prices people have to pay for accommodation in hotels vary enormously. That is why it is interesting to know how the price for hotel services can be formed. So this work should show what factors can affect the hotel price. In attempt to figure out such factors, the researchers found a lot of information about different hotels. However, this works were mainly focused on the study of hotels located in resort areas not far from the sea such as hotels in Spain, Italy and so on. In order to diversify the existing studies in this work I will concentrate on study the hotels that focus more in business tourism. So the research question of my study goes to identify what factors can affect on prices in hotels especially in business tourism. In order to find the decision for research question, a number of tasks should be solved. So the main tasks are:
1) To analyze the theoretical background of such field.
2) To understand factors which influence the prices.
3) To introduce a new model that will help to get some results and answer on research question.
Considering Russia, we can see that the southern cities and capitals (Moscow and Saint Petersburg) studied well enough in terms of pricing of hotel services. Perm Region is an example of an industrial city where the business tourism is more developed. That the reason, why in this research I will concentrate on hotel market of Perm Krai. In order to find out what factors can affect the cost of hotel services it is necessary to conduct econometric research using hedonic price function. Application of this method is conditioned by the fact that it is most often used by various researchers. The method for carrying out a regression analysis allows you to obtain reliable values of the determinants that affect the dependent variable. Therefore I believe that the present work will deepen an understanding of hotel pricing strategies which take place in industrial region of our country in Perm Krai. 
The research proposal consists of four main parts. Introduction contains main idea of the research. It is followed by a description of theoretical backgrounds. Information about data and research design is presented in methodology section. And predicted results and main limitations are discussed in the last section. 

Theoretical background
According to some research, the hospitality business is known as a field that can bring a lot of money to the country. Annually it can bring nearly 10% of global GDP to the world economy. That is why it is one of the most studied fields in economics. The researchers involve a huge variety of topics related with hospitality business. However the pricing of hotel services is still of concern to many economists. The process of pricing is extremely difficult in real life. Thus, it is necessary to establish price as accurately as possible so that producers could increase their profit while consumers will be able to present demand. Initially, researchers used the most primal and conventional methods for the establishment the prices on hotel services, such as price calculation based on the ratio of costs and profits. One more way that used early was the method of setting price at the level of closer competitors. However, the studies that have been made in the second half of XX century have made a real breakthrough in this area.
Lancaster (1966) was the first scholar who proposed to move away from the traditional way to deal with good as a subject, bringing the utility to individual, and proceed to consider the product as a set of characteristics that describe the good. The essence of Lancaster’s study was grasped as a deviation from the mainstream of science. In spite of this fact, the innovative idea advanced by researcher had immediate practical consequences. Therefore, the Lancaster’s successors attempted to accomplish the revision of his theory to provide a solid grounding for the research in the area of pricing. 
Rosen (1974) submitted an upgraded version of the Lancaster’s theory. He tried to present the price of hotel services as a bundle of characteristics, which describe it service. The function, which was proposed to use, he called hedonic price function. It is impossible to exaggerate Rosen’s contribution that casts a new light on the issue of pricing theories. The hedonic price function is debated time and again gains quite a number of followers. Many advocates of its theory have tried to consider the factors that influence the cost of the hotel rooms. Some of them have considered quite a large number of different internal characteristics of the hotel since the theory became widespread. However, full studies showing the relationship between price and characteristics were made later.
With regards to the relationship between room prices and some specific characteristics of the hotel, some researchers of pricing strategies considered the stardom of hotels as one of the most significant factors affecting the price. A few scholars have focused on specific factors of hotel like stardom. Israeli (2002) found that the top two factors valued by tourists and affected on price include stardom and the presence of the brand. Examining a sample of Israeli hotels, he found that the number of hotel stars have a great impact on the cost of hotel rooms. Furthermore, he pointed out that this influence was permanent both in the low season and in the peak tourism activity. Another point of view was presented later by Monty and Skidmore (2003), who have shared all the factors into three groups: the location factors, the internal attributes of hotel and seasonality. The economists, using data on price collected from poor accommodations in Southeast Wisconsin, learned that location and time of year are important factors of hotel price. Although they pointed out that the attributes such fireplace and room service did not impact on price and were insignificant. Later one more scholar Balaguer (2013) tried to deepen and push forward the impact of Monty’s perspective. To a more thorough examination of the problem, Balaguer managed to identify location as one of the most essential attributes for hotel that influence on hotel price. He also added that “a closer proximity to entertainment centers or services offered by a city allows hotel managers to set higher prices” (Balaguer, 2013, p.398).
One of the key contemporary works found during the literature review for the proposed study is the article by Noone and McGuire (2013). They gave a broader theoretical basis to the research by means of factors that may be called the external attributes namely it is a consumers assessment to hotels left on booking sites. According to Masiero (2015) the room price will depends on factor, which shows how many owners has the hotel. In the case when the owner of the hotel is one person, it reduces the price of the room nearly at 3%. On the contrary, if there is a group of owners then the profits should be divided among owners, and therefore the price will increase by about 10%. Nevertheless, is more important to consider studies that have been made recently and have been based on the hedonic price model. Salo (2014) considered the attributes that influence on changes in the costs of hotel services on a popular tourists resort Costa-Brava. The paper examined 6-month period from May to October and the results were obtained. Salo indicated that the season has great impact on room price, namely in August. The price of an average is 80% more than in other month.
Finally, it is needed to be said that the theoretical background of the research shows that this topic is relevant and that is why it is reflected in economics investigations from all over the world. A limited sample of works dealing with the study of pricing in the market of hotel services allowed us to make conclusions about what methods can be used in this paper, as well as the factors that can be selected for the analysis of the regression model.

Methodology and procedure
The central question of my study, how does different attributes of hotel (internal features, characteristics of infrastructure and area of location) affect the room price, some of the following hypothesis arise: 
* The availability of internal attributes of room or hotel, such as TV, air conditioning, telephone, WI-FI will have a positive impact on the room price;
* The infrastructure factors will be significant at models and will have a negative impact on room price. For instance, it can be the distance to the center or to the railway station.
This hypothesis contains a group of variables that are needed to be measured. Consequently, I need to say the resource where the data were obtained. Despite the fact that today there are a great number of different websites, which full of information about hotels, the most useful site for this study proved to be a booking.com website. It was the resource were I obtained the information about internal attributes of hotel. On the one hand, the data which describe the variables of distance between objects, may also be taken from this site, but on the other hand the research require more precise information. Due to this fact, this research also contains data collected from program 2GIS which allows to calculate some variables more accurately. The sample comprise of 180 observations, including tourist accommodations in Perm and in other cities of Perm Krai. The work was conducted with cross-sectional data.
The hedonic price model will be used to determine the relationship between room prices and attributes of hotel or area where it is located. The correlation analysis will enable to discover if there is a relationship between dependent and explanatory variables, how strong the relationship is, and whether the connection is positive or negative. Econometric research will be carried out using special package Eviews 7.
The model of my research will be used the logarithm of the dependent variable. Such construction will help to interpret the results in more convenient form for economics. Hence, interpretation of the results will be presented in the form of flexibility so it will show the percentage change in dependent variable with the same change in explanatory variable.   

Predicted Outcomes
Hopefully, I will be able to create a rich picture of factors which can influence on the hotel room prices. I also hope to describe the reasons why some attributes has a positive impact on price and some has a negative. This study will differs from others because earlier papers have paid attention mainly on hotels which are located near the sea and belongs to resort area.  In this paper I will focus on the study of pricing strategies in the market of Perm Krai. Regression analysis of hedonic price model will produce results that can be used in further studies.

Limitations of Research
I can assume that the main limitation of my study is that many of the hotels are trying to gloss over the real situation that is happening there, thus they are adding a few extra attributes on the booking websites. They can do that in order to attract their tourists. However further research could be carried out by comparing a number of cities in order to understand what kind of characteristics and which are the most significant.
Apart from this problem, the research can face another problem with econometric part of work. Sometimes models contain various inaccuracies and therefore the researcher is faced with various problems like endogeneity or the availability of complete multicollinearity between factors.
