Introduction
Market conjuncture is extremely unstable and constantly changing. Market participants interact to each other every minute. Being a complex social institute, market has a range of different “rules of the game” and mechanisms of its operations. In present research I concentrate on one part of such a “game” – a competition level. The main topic of the work is formulated as “A deterrent effect of merger control in Russia”.
Regulation of the competition is one of the main government functions. In Russia such a control is hold by the Competition Authority (in Russian literally Federal Antitrust Service). The necessity of the regulation is a significant part of economic development, which makes a significance of the chosen topic. The competition provides equilibrium between consumers’ needs and producers’ activities in price-quality balance and avoids monopolistic behavior.
The competition level responses to every business made between firms. Speaking about the question of the competition regulation it is necessary to introduce the definitions of such businesses as mergers and acquisitions (M&A) – types of purchase and sale of companies’ assets characterized by the changes in their organization and management. When two firms combine their capital and form a new company, it is a merger. When one firm buys the assets of another, which ceases to exist, it is an acquisition. Thus the difference between mergers and acquisitions lay in the circumstances of the transaction and does not make sense in my investigation. There are two types of transactions that affect the competition: procompetitive and anticompetitive. The former is a positive case, when firms have not large market power, and the competition is not reduced. The latter has negative consequences because participants of the transaction already have a significant market power or will get it after merger, which will cause the transformation of competition into monopoly.
The purpose of the merger control is to identify whether companies’ transaction pro- or anticompetitive.Before each transaction is made, companies sent a petition to the Competition Authority and expect it to be permitted. The authority learns the circumstances of the potential business and the market conjuncture and then gives a final decision (instrument). If potential transaction complies with the statutory requirements, the Competition Authority will give the permission; otherwise they will send remedy of prohibition. That is the direct effect of the competition policy, because firms’ behavior is influenced by the government in the present period directly (ex-post regulation).
Considering the volume of the transactions made in the market daily, the competition regulation appears time-consuming and labor-intensive process. Thus there is an interest to reduce regulation costs. Therefore the deterrent effect is becoming the object of current investigations in merger control field. It is a phenomenon when firms are not regulated by the government directly, but change their decisions about potential transaction by the fact whether or not the same transactions were permitted in the previous period. In that case companies do not send the petition to the Competition Authority, if they expect it to be adjusted or permitted. Such a deterrent effect means diminution of control costs.
In the present investigation the research question is formulated in the following way: does merger control have a deterrent effect in Russian economics? Foreign scientists have already experienced the deterrent effect in other countries, which will be considered in the theoretical background. But in Russian practice it has not been done yet. Thus the main purpose of this paper is to identify the deterrent effect on the Russian data, and in the case of positive results to describe the most appropriate model of its operating.

Theoretical background
For better understanding the mechanism of a deterrent effect it is appropriate to consider the origin papers of that idea. In economics it was borrowed from the Becker’s work in the crime economics branch (Becker, 1968). According to Becker’s rule criminals are considered as the rational individuals, who have particular patterns of preferences. In that case criminal estimate the utility of  different outcomes caused by their behavior. Therefore the increase of probability to be sentenced for the crime or stricter punishment reduces incentives to do crime. Thus the number of crimes decreases with the increasing severity of punishment without direct judicial proceedings, which is the deterrent effect. Such a mechanism helps to detect optimal level of government regulation. It should be noted that in current researches Becker’s rule reflects not only in economics, but in other fields of study: economics of labor (Scholz, Gray, 1990), human rights (Kim, Sikkink, 2010), etc.
Nowadays a deterrent effect mechanism in economics is the same including some improvements. The substantiation of the interest to deterrence in competition regulation is demonstrated by Buccirossi et al (2009). Authors estimate the level of competition regulation from the standpoint of public welfare. According to Buccirossi et al proceedings on anticompetitive transactions require high time and financial costs, what becomes the reason why optimal level of the antimonopoly activity has to be found, and the deterrence will be the best way to reach high efficiency of regulation.
Unfortunately in Russian practice all of the existing investigations are dedicated only to the direct effect of the competition policy. Different spheres of competition law applications are considered. Bashlachov-Nickolaev (2015) has focused in his paper on the influence of the Competition Authority’s activity on small and midsize businesses. Here he describes the strategies of law competition functioning based on the present marker conjuncture. Moreover the efficiency of the competition law functioning today has become the subject of interest in mass media: RBK the Internet portal (2015), “Urist” e-journal (2016) etc. In the current are researches firms are considered to be influenced by the Competition Authority only in the present period overlooking potential past and future effects. Avdasheva’s papers (2007-2016) are the example of systematized knowledge about contemporary antimonopoly practice in Russia. Here competition policy contributions in Russia are compared to the foreign countries practice. These consumptions (Avdasheva, 2016) are taken as baselines in the present investigation on a deterrent effect. Theses given in these papers are studied to better understand contemporary realities in the competition policy field in Russia.
To detect the deterrent effect on Russian data, works of foreign experience were studied. Clougherty and Seldeslachts papers are taken as the baseline. Here the researches on USA (2011) and EU (2014)are taken by authors. For EU the antimonopoly policy instruments given by the Competition Authority are estimated. The database includes firms activities during the period 1990-2009. For each transaction the competition policy instrument is assigned. The formulated mathematic model involves the number of petition sent to European Commission in the present period, which relate to firms’ activities on marked. Such an indicator is taken as a dependent variable. The European Commission’s instruments (remedies and prohibitions) in the past and present periods together with control variables (industries’ characteristics) are used as explanatory indicators. The results of estimations made by authors demonstrate that the deterrence effect is characterized by remedies and prohibitions, and the industry classification is significant. Moreover, the main result shows that competition policy instruments do not deter procompetitive mergers, but deter anticompetitive transactions in high-concentrated industries.
In the present investigation the idea of identification the deterrent effect is realized as described above. Such a mechanism is expected to be useful in applying on Russian data.

Methodology
The idea of the present research is to identify how firms’ activities are influenced by the range of particular factors. Accordingly to the studied literature, there are main factors that can have deterrent effect on firms’ decisions about mergers and acquisitions. These factors include the characteristics of potential transaction between firms and main micro- and macroeconomic indicators of each industry, in which merger or acquisition will be made. Such an idea represents firms’ behavior according to the Competition Authority activity.
The phenomenon of a deterrent effect illustrates the scheme of a competition policy realization. To formulate the design of the investigation it is necessary to widen the definition of the deterrent effect. Generally, the Competition Authority instruments (remedies, prohibitions from the actual number of considered petitions) given in the previous period affect firms’ activity in the present period. Learning previous restricted or blocked transaction(s) and identifying the same merger or acquisition, companies decide not to do such a business, in other words, decided not to send a petition to the Competition Authority. For that reason the number of made transaction decreases in total, and the competition maintain at the same level. In that case firms were not regulated by the government. Substantially, that is deterrent effect.
Following this idea, the mathematic model is formulated as the dependence of firms’ activities from the range of control variables. The number of petitions in the present period is chosen as the dependent variable. Essentially, this factor demonstrates the market level of firms’ activity. The number of instruments of the Competition Authority (remedies and prohibitions) given in the previous period are taken as the explanatory variable, which (in the case of statistical significance) will be interpreted to have deterrent effect. Both the number of petitions and industries characteristics (control variables) in the past period help to represent the reaction of firms’ for previously regulated businesses between companies.
To realize the idea of the investigation database was collected. A range of several types of the information are included. Database represents the information about each petition during the period 2009-2016. It should be noted here that data collecting were done by two-stage algorithm. At the first stage about 10 000 petitions are considered. It is necessary to emphasize that one petition corresponds to one potential transaction. As described above, there is a range of control variables helping to identify a deterrent effect of the Competition Authority activity. For each petition the Competition Authority decision is complied. To sort transactions for different industries two-digit code OKVED is used. According to this indicator the type of the transaction is defined (vertical, horizontal or conglomerate).At the second stage, collected data was restructured to the shorten database, which become the basis of the calculations. There are no petitions separately, but only the numbers of it in each industry. At the same way the amount of the remedies and prohibitions are calculated. To fix industrial difference control variables also put into the database. Accordingly to the relevant literature, industrial indicators are the following: concentration index, growth rate of sale volume, return of equity, the capital intensity of production. All of the factors are put in line and represent panel data (industry by the year). Thus in each industry at the particular year about 1300 petitions are sent to the Competition Authority. About 1200 out of total are permitted, 70 received remedies and 30 are prohibited.
To draw initial expectations of taken investigation it is necessary to notice that all of the chosen factors were believed to have a deterrent effect on firms’ activity in Russia. These results are surfacing in a wide range of the previous studies in other countries. Thus the described model is expected to show agreement for Russian data with previous experience of foreign countries.

Predicted outcomes
As it was described above, functioning of the deterrent effect is a complex system of some main factors. They can be classified into two types: the competition policy options and industries’ characteristics. Both of them are finally expected to be statistically significant. In that case the first group of factors will mean that deterrent effect actually has place in Russian economics. The second group includes subsidiary indicators that help to detect industries influence on firms’ activities. This is important to understand that question on the deterrence cannot be decided without introducing these factors according to the following idea. Each industry requires particular volume of labor and capital resources, which cause the differentiation in production cycle in each branch.Ignoring of these key indicators can lead to the errors in final results of calculations and does not make the problem go away. Thus each factor relates to the particular industry characteristic that separately accounted in the mathematic model. Such a differentiation helps to identify the individual deterrent effect in each production branch.
In general the interpretation of the expected results involves both aggregated competition policy options and industrial characteristics. The identification of both the former and the latter influences on firm activities will denote higher efficiency of the competition policy in Russia.In practice it appears as diminution of the number of instituted proceedings, and consequently lowering of time, labor and financial costs.The application of the described model will improve understanding of the competition policy functions.

Limitations of research
The barrier to resolve the problem is firstly lay in the needed information volume. The database forming is time-consuming. This process requires matching information from different sources into one array. The necessity to catch each of the 10 000 transactions by hand is the main difficulty on data collecting process.
Another limitation relating to the database is technical. During the data collecting information was noticed to have some gaps that cannot be completed. There are a few petitions each year (about 10%), where companies cannot be classified by industries. It is caused by the lack of information given in the Competition Authority site, thus such petitions become missing data and not involved into database.
Moreover, previous analyses on the deterrent effect are failed to detect one significant point. The idea of identifying the deterrence assumes to investigate already completed transactions between firms. But there are still companies that are already deterred by the Competition Authority activity that means they decided not to send the petition to antimonopoly service according to their previous activity. That is the reason why there is an interest to formulate the two-stage regulation model to find out behavior of firms who potentially refused transaction. The question on it is still open, but we should end on optimistic note and point out that one-stage mechanism described in the present research has success in realization today.