Introduction
In the modern economic theory, the most complex issues are associated with problems of economic growth and effectiveness of finance indicators. It is a well-known fact that high degree of fixed assets depreciation is one and the most serious barriers which interfere with Russian companiesí development. In comparison with similar value for BRICS countries (in 2011 this figure was at 35%), it is possible to draw a conclusion on a deplorable condition of tangible assets domestic companies.  According to official data of the Federal State Statistics Service, at the end of 2015 the average level of depreciation was 47.7%. In addition, it should be noted that such value rises from year to year, so we have seen an upward trend. There is no doubt that using old equipment negatively affects the performance of the company and, consequently, its profit (Goncharuk, A. G., 2013). Actually, the interest at such phenomenon as an investment and capital expenditures is growing, because scientists believe that these indicators are one of the possible ways to solve this problem (Fernandes da Silva A. et al., 2015). Empirical studies draw attention to the fact that capital expenditures may determine investment activity of the enterprise. The importance of such statement to companyís profits is well established in accounting, finance and economic literature In addition, capital building is a traditional term used for the empirical study of investment in fixed assets. It should be taken into consideration that search and analyze indicators that describe the investment activity is extremely difficult due to the fact that a such set may be different for particular sectors (Audretsch B. D., Elston A. J., 2000)
The investment activity concept is one of the widely discussed forms since the 1970s, but now scientists have not reached a single, universally accepted definition of this term, its functions and indicators. Its idea can be treated as purchasing of securities or other financial assets from the†capital market with some risk. It also means the implementation of money for buying†shares, mutual funds or assets with high†market liquidity. Scientists claim that strengthening investment activity can reduce the negative consequences of moral and physical depreciations of fixed assets (Bevan A., 2001). 
This work is relevant today because some industries in Russia are extremely worn-out property, plant and equipment that require significant capital investments to improve product quality, compliance with international standards and environmental requirements. For example, a survey (Õ»” - ¬ÿ› ÃÓÒÍ‚‡, 2014) showed that in 2014 the average age of machinery and equipment in Russian metallurgical and chemical industries accounted for more than 14 years. Such problem is a key to understand reasons that encourage companyís management to make a decision in favor of investing in their own fixed capital.  
It is worth noting that this investigation needs to pay attention not only researchers, but also executives. For me it also has its value, because I want to work in the economic sphere, and this knowledge will help me better understand how to construct the company's cash flows, which are directed to capital costs.
Current research as already mentioned above will focus on examination of relationship between capital expenditures and internal (external) factors. The central research questions could be framed as follows: whether or not financial and non-financial factors are significant determinants of investment decision? Is there any impact on the company's investment activities not only to indicators associated directly with the financial results, but indirectly? 

Theoretical background 
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body literature. The theoretical background starts off the explanation of its key issues. Since the notion of companyís investment activity is still has no clear definition, it is appropriate to draw attention that in the modern economic literature this concept is mentioned as intensity and attractiveness. On this basis it is necessary to make a clarification of what is meant by this term. At present, scholars have developed quite various ideas about what kind of measure can best describe the investment activity. 
Lutsenko (Lutsenko, 2015) describes the relationship between absolute change in investment and variables such as growth rate, market-to-book (median Tobin), sales growth and profitability. He revealed a significant correlation between the rate of sustainable growth and the sensitivity of the investment. In addition, Lutsenko also investigates the influence of external factors. As a result, a negative impact on the investment growth by the inflation and the refinancing rate of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation was proven.
Another study, which is worth mentioning, was held Cherkasova and Teplova (Cherkasova & Teplova, 2011). The authors examined the relationship between capital investments and financial performance of energy industry companies. They learned how capital investments depend on the revenues from the previous year, return on investment, leverage, capital intensity, cash flow from the last year and the dependent variable lag. At the end of this work, the researches have shown that when deciding about the level of capital building, decision is based on the value of this indicator in the previous year. In addition, the presence of high revenue should not reduce the level of capital investment, but on the contrary, increase it. It should be noted that Cherkasova and Teplova empirically proved the importance of return on investment indicator. Summing up, it is worth noting that all the recorded above parameters positively affect the amount of capital investment, but the cash flow from the last year ñ negatively. 
Another major work has been done by Teplova and Krylova (Teplova & Krylova, 2007). They tried to systematize existing researches the field of companiesí investment behavior. This work represents a tremendous interest because it made an empirical analysis all types of investment: investment in modernization, expansion of the existing capital stock, financial investments. The dependent variables considered as an investment (relative change), real investments (capital expenditures) and financial investment (long-term investments). As a result, authors found that the determinants of real investment are the own funds availability (high values of accumulated cash flow, profitability), investment opportunities, diagnosed the stock market and specific risk. 
Despite the fact that the work was released in 1996, it is still relevant in this area. Gordon L. A. & Iyengar, R. J. studied more than 1,000 investment - active enterprises at industrial sector. The main factors that adversely affect the volume of investments in capital expenditure are growth in sales, growth in internally -generated flow of funds, acceleration principle and capital intensity. They constructed the econometric model. Positive impact on the return on investment has been proven. There are different views on that variable. On the one hand, theorists argue the lack of communication between the value of return on investment and the level of capital investment. On the other hand, in practice, management companies, considering the projects, choosing the ones that return on investment is greater in order to increase the performance of the company. It should be noted that in addition to this the scholars believe that the constant and unpredictable changes in exchange rates pose a serious obstacle to business. 

Methodology
This part of the project gives special emphasis to the data analysis. As has been shown earlier, the main intention of the research is to investigate in depth and to build an understanding of how company's internal performance and external factors have an impact on its decision-making about capital building. The solution will provide econometric analysis, the construction of a regression model with the involvement of the factors considered. Now it is needed to describe the data to be analyzed and method to be used in carrying out the study. Accounting statements of Russian metallurgical and ore mining companies in the period from 2012 to 2015 were taken for evaluation. Such information allows calculating all the variables. For scholars who investigate the financial indicators, there are large numbers of databases that help to download the necessary information. For example, Ruslana, Amadeus, Compustat, Bloomberg and so on. Here it is necessary to conclude that among the total number of databases SPARK was chosen because it covers all Russian companies and contains relevant information.  It should be mentioning that according to most scientists in assessing financial performance scholars may use panel data, because they make it possible follow changes over time. 

Predicted Outcomes
Hopefully, an attempt is made to create a most complete picture of firmís investment activity as it possible. Also hope to describe or hypothesize indicators that are the key in decision to invest in capital expenditure. To discuss the extent of influence, it can be assumed that some parameters have a positive impact, while the other are negative. Conclusions drawn from econometric analysis may be used as a basis for further research.

Limitations of the Research
A problem, which immediately surfaces in this research, is the ability not to observe some of parameters. For example, if there was a lack of values in database formation, it will negatively affect the number of observations. This significantly reduces the amount of explanatory variables in the model. As a result, missed data makes it impossible for thorough consideration of investigated area. Moreover, such uncounted factors can affect the quality of the constructed model, impairing its adequacy. That statement implies inaccurate effects. For instance, it may be happened such a result, where a factor that a priori can not affected positively, related to the dependent variable in this way. Another important limitation is that the study is supposed to only companies belonging to the mining and metallurgical industry. These sectors have been chosen because of two reasons. First, they occupy a central position in terms of revenue. Second, according to the experts, these industries are the most worn-out fixed assets. At last, there may be a set of additional factors, which may affect capital expenditures.  
To improve the model, is supposed to extend the range of data from 2005 to 2015. This will take into account the effect of the crisis. In addition, the larger amount of data will increase the number of variables.
