Introduction
In the case of globalization and rapid changes in technologies, people with innovative ideas are main drivers of economy. It is proved by many examples, that countries where population are open to innovation have fast growth of GDP and other financial data. Taking this fact into account, innovators guarantee of national well-being. In Russia with unstable economy situation and attempts to become more progressive and developed, it is crucial to estimate how many Russians have positive attitude to innovation and find reasons that form this attitude. The present paper focuses on students’ attitude to innovation, especially students who are finishing their studying. It is the most appropriate group of population for analysis, as the nearest future and perspectives of growth and development of economy depend on them. Also they can to approximate the spread of the fourth industrial revolution.
However, considering that it is possible to get all facts about this subject only using one student characteristic is unscientific. In this situation, a complex approach which allow to discover if there is interrelation between values and attitude to innovation is needed. It is appropriate to assert such interrelation, because values create our personality and have an impact on our worldview that defines our attitudes. Also this issue was highlighted in scientific works, for instance, in the study of Stefan Dollinger et al was shown that creative students and their groupmates have different system of values. (Dollinger, Burke & Gump, 2007) Among researchers from foreign countries this theme is more spread than among Russian scientists, that makes the present work more actual. Moreover, papers of Fedotova (Fedotova, V. A. 2015) and Lebedeva (Lebedeva, N., & Schmidt, P. 2013, Lebedeva, N., Osipova, E., & Cherkasova, L. 2013) paying more attention to defining the cross-cultural or demographic differences in values, and how it influence on attitude to new ideas. In my research, I will concentrate on narrow area that help to detail existing knowledge about this problem and get accurate data.
Hence, the central goal of this study is defining how values of students who will graduate soon correlate with their view on innovation. To achieve this purpose several things should be done. First off all, theory about this question should be reviewed and analyzed. That will form the basis of the paper. This will be done in the second part of this study. Then tools and methods which will be used during the research should be identified and described in the “Methodology and procedure” section. For this work such methods as secondary data analysis, focused interview and questionnaire will be used. There are existing questionnaire that help to determine the values and the degree of acceptance of new ideas. After collecting all data from both forms, the results will be treated through special program – SPSS. The predicted results will be described in the third part of this proposal.

Theoretical background
Obviously, that attitude towards innovation is formed by external factors  and personal characteristics, and it is possible to suggest that values play the crucial role in this process. Considering this, it is sufficient to define that theories provide a clear view about values before start of reaching the main goal of this research.
A considerable amount of works have been written to explain and clarify the nature of values. That is why different definitions of this notion and  that is more  diverse approaches of measuring values exist, among which one can name approaches developed by S. Schwartz, F. Trompenaars and C. Hampden-Turner, G. Hofstede, C. Kluckhohn and F. Strodtbeck, E. Hall etc. As the researches of Fedotova (Fedotova, V. A. 2015) and Lebedeva (Lebedeva, N., & Schmidt, P. 2013), this study will be based on Schwartz’s approach because of the most appropriate methods of measuring. According to him, values as desirable, trans-situational goals, varying in importance, which serves as guiding principles in people’s lives. Also Schwartz distinguishes all values into groups in accordance with motivational goals they express. The author details the derivations of the ten basic values: achievement, power, self-direction, hedonism, stimulation, universalism, conformity, benevolence, tradition, and security. These ten values can not only add each other, but and conflict. So, they was structured in the circle graph with two main opposite dimensions, where Openness to change versus Conservation and Self-transcendence versus Self-enhancement. The former refers to values emphasizing selfdirection and stimulation versus security, conformity, and tradition, whereas the latter refers to universalism and benevolence versus power and achievement. (Schwartz, S. H. 2007) 
Now it is possible to start the review of works which were focused on the finding the interrelation between acceptance to new ideas and values. More attention will be paid to researches of Russian authors as they reflect the situation in Russia that helps to reach the main goal of this proposal. Also this works are more interesting because in Russia there are few examples of works in this area.
In the study “Values and Attitudes towards Innovation among Canadian, Chinese and Russian Students” (Lebedeva, N., & Schmidt, P. 2013.) authors state that correlation between values, innovation, and creativity can be defined using the Dual Pathway to Creativity Model (DCPM), where creativity and innovativeness are stimulated by such values as Self-Direction and Stimulation and suppressed by Conformity and Tradition. 
Also in their work Lebedeva and Schmidt determined known demographic aspects, that influence innovation, which are gender and age, and decided to concentrate on what impact on this cultural differences have. To reach their goal they give a special questionnaire to 444 college students from Russia, Canada and China. As the result, in these groups cultural differences in values as well as in innovation attitudes were discovered. The culture of China tending to be more traditional (the values of Conservation and Self-Transcendence, promoted the group interests in survival and harmony), whereas values of Openness to Change and Self-Enhancement are close to Russians and Canadians. 
The other work of Lebedeva (Lebedeva, N., Osipova, E., & Cherkasova, L. 2013). Values and Social Capital as Predictors of Attitudes towards Innovation makes the issue is more complicate adding the new factor – social capital. In this work Schwarz’ model is also used, but the renewed. Analysis of data is made by the same methods as in the previous research. It said us that it is the most appropriate way to take the results and that it can be used in this study too.
Fedotova in her work “Values as Predictors of Positive or Negative Attitude Towards Innovation Among Representatives of Various Generations of Russian People” deepen and develop theme of demographic distinctions focusing on how Russians from different age groups perceive innovative ideas.  Two main methods were used: the PVQ-R individual values measuring method and the method of ‘Self-assessment of innovative qualities of a personality”. The first method is the new version of S. Schwartz’s questionnaire. To treated the results correlation analysis and multiple regression analysis were used. The results of this study showed that young people are tended to be more innovative and ambitious, but at the same time some of them still depend on their parents. Adult people’ attitude towards innovation appeared positive, but only in some extent, because they value openness as traditions and stability. 
Results from both works above will be precious for my research, because they all have almost the same field.
The next work that should to be considered is work of Arsenijevi? O. et all (Arsenijevi?, O., Bulatovi?, L., & Bulatovi?, G. 2012.) where she and her colleagues are considering the main issue of my study, but in the context of Serbian media students. 

Methodology and procedure   
In order to get information about participant’s values, in this study as in the some of considered researches PVQ-R individual values measuring method will be used. In appliance with this method, a person should  estimate the significance of 57 values on a scale from -1 (opposed to my values) to +7 (of supreme importance). Each value item provides a key phrase plus a parenthetical elaboration about 19 values.
The special questionnaire which provides an opportunity to take data about attitude towards innovation will be developed on the basis of the existing ones.
The data which will be collect from both forms then will be treated through special program – SPSS, where correlations will be defined, and also some impacts socio-cultural and demographic characteristics on the attitude to innovation.
Also some students will be interviewed through the designed guide, that can give more detailed and sincere answers. 
All taken results will be in some extent compare with the results from similar studies in Russia, which also will be analyzed in order to follow through differences of data development in the society.

Limitations of research
The research is limited by the sample, which is, first of all, consist of students on the final stage of studying, reasons for this are described in the first part of this work.
In the second place, only people who lived in Perm or Perm region will be in the sample as the most acceptable group.  
In the third, these students are from Higher School of Economics. However, if time and opportunities allow to expand the research, student from other Perm universities also will be include.
Choice of such narrow area for the research gives a detailed picture of the issue and helps to form an impression about potential economic growth of the region and also impact of this group of population on creating new ideas.