Introduction
Loyalty Program - is a marketing strategy that provides incentives to ensure customer loyalty in retail. Using loyalty programs as a powerful relationship marketing tool is becoming popular to promote customer loyalty. Customer loyalty is an important issue in order to succeed in any commercial organization, since it is known that the attraction of new customers is more expensive than maintaining existing ones.
Relationship marketing aimed at creating customer for life because when customers have a relationship with the company, they are ready to forget any other competitors' offers. Customer loyalty to a particular company helps them to make the right decision, to reduce the processing of information, to ensure consistency in decision-making, and reduces the risks associated with future decision. As a rule, increased levels of customer retention contribute to increased profits and revenue as well as the intangible benefits of customer loyalty contributing to a long-term sustainability of the organization. Also, the organization must understand needs and behavior of its customers, by creating customer profiles with the corresponding data in order to have a complete picture of customer preferences. 
Existing literature on the impact of loyalty programs on behavioral loyalty yields two interesting results. Firstly, participants in these programs show a higher behavioral loyalty than non-participants. This becomes evident through indicators like the frequency of visits to the retailer or the number of visited competitor selling points (Dre`ze and Hoch, 1998; Passingham, 1998; Benavent et al., 2000; Meyer-Waarden, 2002). Secondly, papers focused on loyalty programs that compare the consumers’ behavior before and after enrolling themselves in these programs show that there is virtually no difference between the two states regarding the number of visits to the retailer or purchase volume (Sharp and Sharp, 1997, 1998; Wright and Sparks, 1999; Benavent, 2000; Bell and Lall, 2002; Meyer-Waarden, 2002). Taking into account both two previous results, we are led to think that loyalties programs do not make customers become more loyal, but it is main contribution to retain the already loyal customers. But a simple study of the customer retention strategies will not provide any addition to the already available research literature. Hence, in order to conduct a research and develop accurate conclusions, my central goal of the study will be to obtain a deep understanding of the impact of customer loyalty programs on customer retention.
The subject of research is the system of a loyalty program. Interest in this research is justified on my own studies, the purpose of which was to study consumer behavior, their sensitivity to the prices, product requirements and factors that consumers are guided when choosing a product.
In this paper I had two main research questions:
1. What is the current status of customer loyalty program?
2. How customer loyalty program should be developed?
An attempt to delineate a contour of relevant debates in academic literature and to shape a focus of future research is presented in the literature review section. It is followed by a description of the methods for data collection and analyses of the research, and the anticipated results of the study and its limitations.

Theoretical background
Today’s constantly changing and very competitive business environment is requiring sensitive awareness of the situation, and fast reaction abilities from the companies in order to provide products and services to meet customers’ expectations. Customer loyalty programs is one of the tactics that companies have adapted since loyalty is an important key to an organizational success and profit (Lack, 2000) and are critical in conducting business in today’s competitive marketplace (Komunda and Osarenkhoe, 2012).  Customer relationship can be considered as a business strategy for the company, and can be executed effectively via well-organized business processes, which suite best for company’s communication with the customers.
The modern concept of "loyalty" is a characteristic of the attitude of consumers to the company, which is expressed on the one hand, in his behavior in the market as the subject of the demand, and on the other - in the emotional perception of the brand, including in comparison with its competitors. 
In the 1970ies, European researchers found that a business that have a close relationship with their customers simply have “better” customers, since loyal customers are more profitable to a firm (Dowling & Uncles, 1997). Selin et al., (1988) states: “that those customers that demonstrate the greatest level of loyalty toward the product, and service activity, tend to repurchase more, and spend more money” (cited in Divett et al., 2003, p. 109). “It has been estimated that attracting a new customer is three to five times more costly than retaining an existing customer” (Jang and Mattila, 2005, p. 402). To succeed with creating a loyalty program that influences purchase behavior, previous researchers conclude that different factors need to be considered. Jang and Mattila (2005) studied what kind of rewards that customers prefer, while Keh and Lee (2006) researched which timing of the reward that customers prefer. Both concepts of timing and type of reward have previously been researched in the field of loyalty programs.
The first aim of this study is to analyze the current status of the customer loyalty program. The purpose can clarify if the planned actions and expectations of the company for the customer loyalty program meet with the customers’ needs and expectations. This clarification is done by comparing the results received from the customer satisfaction survey and answers received from the interviews with management. The company has certain understanding about where they stand at the moment and towards in what direction the company should develop the customer loyalty program. The customers have their own visions and expectations about the customer loyalty program.  The second objective of this study is to point out relevant development areas, which need to be developed in the customer loyalty program. This objective is reached by analyzing the customer satisfaction survey results and answers of interviews with management, and by reflecting theory to findings.
However, there are certain factors that may impede the implementation of these objectives. Obstacles of the implementation of loyalty programs can be:
* Firstly - an unfavorable investment climate, where market participants avoided risks;
* Secondly - the low engagement guide when the owners decide to open a new store, but do not invest in technology;
* Thirdly - the lack of cooperation within the organization;
* Fourthly - lack of customer awareness about their needs;
* And the last one – problems of management of customer service process as a whole, where the company doesn’t have a customer-oriented culture that would reflect the company's role in society.
To resolve these problems, it is necessary to understand that the company gives to society as a whole, whether society needs in this company and its services. Also, it is necessary to organize the flow of ideas from customers and employees, constantly changing attitude of customers to the company and to ensure that it does.
This study can clarifies how the customer loyalty program can be developed in order to strengthen and increase the customers’ commitment towards the stores, and to increase the understanding of the customers’ needs and expectations. By understanding the similarities and differences of the company’s and the customers’ expectations and ideas for development of the customer loyalty program, it could be easier to name certain development areas for developing the customer loyalty program towards the correct and required direction, and to meet more of the customers’ needs.

Methodology
It is worth recalling that this study aims to find answers to following two main research questions:
1. What is the current status of customer loyalty program?
2. How customer loyalty program should be developed?
With the first research question the current status of customer loyalty program is described. Current status is analyzed by using the information received from customer survey and interviews with management. Customers’ feedback and expectations are studied carefully, and those are compared with the views and visions of the management. The overall picture about the current status of customer loyalty program will lead the study to the next question about how the customer loyalty program should be developed. Identified development areas are discussed based on the customer survey results, answers from the interviews with the management, introduced theory and author’s own ideas about the topic.
Answering the questions of the research, this study will provide important information on the loyalty program status in the company and provides a direction of development with the future prospect. The empirical part includes two types of studies: 1. interviews with customers. Customer Survey concentrates on their opinions and expectations regarding the loyalty program.  2. Interviews with the management of the company.
Data will be collected using qualitative and quantitative research. I chose several methods, as they can provide more opportunities to answer the research questions. 
The quantitative research was chosen for the purpose of customer satisfaction surveys and to collect customer data. The aim was to send a customer satisfaction survey to existing customer loyalty program customers.  Questionnaire was chosen as the data collection method. It included closed ended questions, which allow respondents to choose from a limited set of responses. Likert scaled questionnaire with scale from 1 to 5 was chosen as a type of scale for this study, because it measures respondents’ attitudes and opinions directly and levels of agreement and disagreement. Likert Scale used in this study was a five point scale, which was used to allow the customers to express how much they agree or disagree with a particular statement (Simply Psychology). It was also possible for the customers to write open feedback in the two questions of the questionnaire. Electronic questionnaire was chosen because of low-cost advantages, the easiness for distribution and large target group. This also allowed more efficient and effective analysis of the collected data.
Besides, it was conducted Interviews with the management and customers. The management will evaluate the existing development plan for customer loyalty program. Qualitative study was used for receiving the data from the management, because it generates non-numerical data or data that have not been quantified. The interviews conducted for this study were structured. Structured interviews use questionnaires based on a predetermined set of questions. questions were different between management and customers. The interviews were done face-to-face with each interviewee. Structured interview proceeds under a stimulus-response format, presuming that the respondent answers honestly to questions.

Predicted outcomes
Hopefully, I will be able to create or seize the loyalty program for portability better understand this very intricate picture of consumer behavior and to be able to put forward a decent hypothesis and prove it in practice. Hypothesis and conclusions drawn from the data quality can be used for further investigations in this field. In this area of study much research remains to be done. In future I will try to apply the model of the development of loyalty programs on a real company and to evaluate the effectiveness of its work.

Limitations of the research
At this stage of the proposal for the research, I identified several limitations. One of the primary limitations of the research was the importance placed on the use of secondary data tools in the study. By using the guest satisfaction surveys, emphasis was placed on a tool that was not specifically designed for the purpose of the study. As a result, variances in results may be contributed to various factors including differences in sample size and response measurements.
More than that, questionnaire method provides information on a wide range of issues, however, the possibility of its use in the practice of marketing research is limited. First of all, the survey does not reveal the hidden motives of consumer behavior, not suitable for "deep" information from respondents.
Delimitations used in the empirical analysis of this study are formed according to the socio-economic status of the loyal customers. Analyses of the customer satisfaction survey results are restricted to certain city. Delimitations for the management interview questions have been made by defining the questions related to the current status and the future perspectives of the customer loyalty program. Delimitations for the customer satisfaction survey have been made by choosing the questions related to the image of the program and future development suggestions for the program.
A barrier to resolving the problem of the hidden motives may lie in Using open issues associated with ulterior motives of buyers will partly flatten the restriction by allowing you to "direct speech" of the respondent and to identify features of his position. In addition, the interview itself will also help to identify the client's position.