Introduction
Sanctions are the results of the controversy in the various political issues between Russia and Western Nations appeared at the beginning of 2014. However, the talk about them has not fallen silent until now. The reason for the conflict is known to be the intervention of Russia in the events in Ukraine and annexation of the Crimea. The USA initiated sanctions against Russia. The European Union and several other countries soon joined restrictive measures. Sanctions are also supported by state of the Group of seven and some other countries. The sanctions, imposed in connection with the Ukrainian crisis, are the most ambitious in the history of Russia by the quantity of the countries-participants. Therefore, the introduction of new sanctions or cancellation of the existing ones is discussed in the media, at academic conferences and political summits. The Russian experts consider the sanctions against Russia to be a new type of the Cold War because they harm both countries.
The area of my interests includes issues of the equity market, in particular events, affecting the price fluctuations of stocks. Accordingly, the research question is how sanctions influence shares’ prices. Scholars hold quite various doctrines about the effectiveness of sanctions. They researched different countries at different times, however, did not come to the same conclusion. Some scientists presume the sanctions were not destructive and did not reach the expected results, but others do not agree. For this reason, the efficiency of sanctions against Russian companies will be investigated. The movement of the stock market is known to be highly sensitive to political news and events. Moreover, its reaction time for an event in the world is quite short. Thus, we can use quotation of shares as an indicator to quantify the effects of the restrictions. 
In the framework of my project the immediate aim is to determine the impact of economic sanctions imposed against Russia in 2014-2016 on stock prices of Russian companies. To achieve this goal, the impact of news on stock price must be examined. Furthermore, collection of data in the internet sources is advisable. The dataset consists of sanctions’ announcements and shares’ prices in the past 3 years. The obtained data will be analyzed by means of the event study methodology. In conclusion, I will interpret the obtained results. 
The investigation includes the following parts: the theoretical background, which describes results of studies of those skilled in the art; the methodology and procedure, which covers in detail using of the research method and the data; the predicted outcomes, where three variants of sanctions’ impact on Russian companies and assumption about different severity of European and American sanctions will be considered; and the limitations of research, in other words, obstacles which may interfere with my investigation. 

Theoretical background
The question considered in this work is relevant to traders because they can get money with this knowledge. Therefore, traders keep track of the volatility of the stock market in order to avoid the loss of profit. The volatility is created by news, both good and bad. If a trader knows when there will be announcements and the extent of their influence on the market, she/he will be able to prepare and to limit risks. 
Effect of sanctions on the Russian stock market is not widely investigated. Whereas there are not enough researches in the problem area, the following review will be developed through two branches of literature. 
The first branch of literature analyzes the determinants of Russian stock returns will be considered. Since exchange market appeared, enormous attempts have been made to predict stock prices. As a result, there are many research papers about impact of different news especially on the stock market. Some events have significant influence on prices, the effect of the others cannot be detected.
The impact of world events on stock prices in the USA in 1950 – 1966 was examined by Niederhoffer (1971). The data he used was news headlines from two most popular American newspapers. The author determined whether the news was “good” or “bad” and then tried to measure which part of stock prices change was explained by this news. One of the results Victor Niederhoffer got was that significant part of changes in prices on the stock market was the consequence of world events. Moreover, the effect was generally short-term: the most changes happened in one or two days.
Similar question was researched by Ghanem and Rosvall (2014). The researchers extended the dataset adding more stock markets (Sweden, Finland, Germany, UK). They analyzed the impact of different types of news such as political news, economic news, and news about world disasters in 1987 – 2013.  The experts found that the news about disasters had no effect on stock prices. At the same time the positive political and negative economic news significantly changed prices.
The second and arguably more important branch of literature, in which the consequences of conflict and sanctions on stock returns will be assessed. Economic sanctions as means of effect on the foreign policy of the states has been used for a long time. They have been gaining popularity since World War I, when they started to be seen as a less costly and more humane alternative to war. Nevertheless, sanctions are still a popular coercive measure nowadays and they can be treated as world events.
This type of question was researched by Sabetfar, Hajimohmmadi, & Cheng (2013) The specialists had a twenty-years database about Iran. They distinguished two types of imposing sanctions: financial and economic. Main result of the paper was that the coefficient on dummy for financial sanction is highly significant. They concluded that sanctions had negative impact on stock prices because of higher risks for investors in case of imposing sanctions.
Iran is rather unique example for researchers of sanctions impact. During past twenty years, the country was under influence of sanctions, which were tightened or reduced from time to time. Amuzegar (1997) found that as a result of the USA sanctions, which were imposed against Iran to reduce military potential and terrorist danger, GDP of the country decreased by 2% per annum for 5 years. Moreover, there was a significant fall of national Iran currency rate. Katzman (2015) also examined the effect of these sanctions against Iran. The author analyzed changes in economic variables, policy and civilian rights. He found that Iran GDP decreased a lot. Furthermore, there was negative effect on oil production, higher paces of inflation. The impact of changes could be not only economic: changing the position of the nuclear program of Iran also often referred to the impact of sanctions. 
Research of the problem of sanctions imposed against Russia is considered below. Sanctions imposed by different countries where supposed to have negative consequences on Russian economics. Nevertheless, analytics have different opinions about the impact of sanctions and Crimea case on Russian economy in general. On the one hand, according to Nelson (2014), trading volumes between Russia and the USA are rather small (in 2013 shares of import from and export to the USA is 5,6% and 2,7%, respectively), therefore the impact of US sanctions should not be significant. However, Russian economic relationship with European countries is much closer. Hence, researches suppose that this kind of restrictions on trading could have significant influence. 
On the other hand, US sanctions on finance sector, in particular, forbidding credit operations with US bank, could bring serious harm to whole Russian economy. Moreover, sanctions could also shatter investors’ confidence. It would lead to decreasing of capital inflows and investment climate would become worse. (Rennack et al., 2014)
Research topic of Hoffmann and Neuenkirch (2015) is close to mine. The authors analyzed the impact of Crimean conflict on Russian and Ukrainian stock returns. The main result was that escalation of that conflict was bad news for both stock markets. Russian stock returns decreased by nearly 20 basis points after increasing in escalation by 1 percentage point. Ukrainian stock returns fell down even more – about 30 basis points. It means that the conflict brought more harm to Ukrainian economic, and Russian economy seemed more sustained. However, even in Russia after stock market had dropped, real sector's income also decreased. As a result, GDP growth slowed down. Another important result the experts made was about sources of news. They found that investors trusted more international sources of the news.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in the carrying out this study. A rigorous technique for testing the interaction between announcements and the stock price changes is the event study methodology.
The sample consists of 42 Russian companies, which were selected according to their level of liquidity. The author was interested in stocks, which were traded on the stock exchange nearly every day. The data sample includes daily stock returns of the companies from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016. MICEX index was taken as market return. The source of stock prices and the MICEX index was the website Finam (http://www.finam.ru/). The sample also contains information about imposing sanctions (date of the first news). The sanctions’ announcements were obtained through a database Factiva, which includes a huge number of Newspapers and magazines. The data obtained will be thoroughly examined.
Let us consider a step-by-step procedure of event study. The usual algorithm of the event study methodology consists of several consequence steps. First, the author determined the date of the news about imposing sanctions as the event of interest. Second, the news was divided into "good", "bad" and "neutral". The 3-days window was selected due to the desire to explore reactions of the investors in the short term. Next, the author calculated actual stock returns and normal returns during the event window in the case with the absence of the event. The rigorous technique of finding the actual stock returns is the following:
,
The normal returns are as follows: 
,
The coefficients ?_i and  ?_i are defined with the help of the method of least squares.
The differences between these returns are defined as abnormal return, which was calculated for each day in the event window. The abnormal return is calculated by the formula: 
,
Eventually, a test must be done whether the abnormal return is statistically different from zero.
If abnormal returns were statistically different from zero, it would imply that imposed sanctions had influence on returns of Russian stocks. Positive abnormal return means that sanctions increased the yield of the stocks. This result would be expected in case of the news about cancelling the sanctions. Negative abnormal return, which implied decreasing of the profitability, would be expected for news about imposing and prolongation sanctions.

Predicted outcomes
This part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the mentioned method. Hopefully, I will be able to create a rich picture of sanctions influence on Russian companies’ share prices. First, I expect to get a confirmation of significant impact of sanctions’ news on stock prices of companies, which were included in sanctions’ list. Second, I expect to confirm the hypothesis that the European sanctions’ impact on stock prices is more negative than the impact on the American ones. Moreover, I will figure out what influence this news has on companies, which are not on the list of imposing sanctions. I suppose three cases are possible: the specific company share prices will grow, if the sanctions are imposed on its competitor; prices will decrease, if the sanctions are imposed on its partner; and prices will not change, if there is little connection between them. Finally, the question, whether the market believes in revocation sanctions or not, will also be researched using the impact of good news on stock prices. If traders apply the information obtained, they may raise their profits.

Limitations of research
Results expected to be achieved by the study, are restricted. First, little external validity due to all the findings are appropriate only for Russia case. Second, the sample size is relatively small because the events are quite recent, and there are also few companies, whose shares are liquid enough and frequently traded. Moreover, I use an event window, which is rather narrow. There is a possibility that the impact of a particular sanction may appear a little later, for instance, two days after the news release. In this case using a three-days interval can lead to that the definition of the influence will not be precise enough.

