Introduction
Economists have long been interested in how to set the housing price on the real estate market because there are many factors that can affect on the price and whose influence should be studied in detail. Study of pricing strategies in the housing market is an important practical issue, because it helps to understand how and why consumers are willing to pay for certain apartments’ location factors and its characteristics. All the factors that determine the housing price can be divided into two categories: internal and external. Mostly, the effect of the first has a linear dependence, while another has nonlinear and different impact in different areas of the city that leads to more detailed study. There are many works studied the impact of supermarkets and hypermarkets on housing price. According to previous studies supermarkets and hypermarkets exert attraction because both can affect household’s location choice. The positive effects of their location near properties are the saving of time, the easy access to the shopping facilities. The negative externalitites are noise, congection, pollution. 
The heterogeneous nature of the market entangles the already complicated linkage between neighboring and location attributes and house prices. Largely as a result, this renders the use of ordinary ordinary least-squares (OLS) estimation somewhat inadequate. In order to estimate the impact of chosen variables on housing price on the real estate market we propose the spatial autoregression model (SAR). It examines the effect of location using a more advanced approach such as hedonic model with spatial adjustments. The main challenge for estimation is to control for the unobserved house and neighborhood attributes in the model, using GIS techniques and spatial weights. The majority of works are based on the analysis of the European and US data. Russian research still pays much attention to the effects of the internal characteristics on housing price. The impact of spatial effects is not fully studied in the Russian real estate market. My calculations are based on observations of geocoded data on housing prices in the city of Perm during the period from 2014 to 2015 that proves the relevance of this study.
The major question of this paper is how the locationg of supermarkets and hypermarkets near houses affect housing price in the city of Perm. The general purpose of this paper is to show the impact of locations attibutes such as supermarkets and hypermarkets.
To show the location effects there are some tasks that should be measured up:
a) To examine previous works to determine the key factors to identify key trends, examine the models used.
b) To collect data on the characteristics of houses, supermarkets, hypermarkets, their geographic coordinates to calculate the distance between them.
c) To construct econometric models to estimate the significance of selected characteristics on housing price
d) To discuss the limitations of the models and how to improve their quality for future works.

Theoretical background
The study of pricing mechanism on the real estate market has been always attractive for researchers. The most traditional approach of price modeling is a hedonic regression including internal and external house characteristics. As for the internal properties options there is no huge variety of characteristics such as open space nearby residential property that can explain its price. At the same time, a wide range of neighborhood characteristics can be used in a model.
The common way to estimate the effects of surrounding features is the hedonic pricing. A consuderable amount of valuable work of open space has been done to proof of the fact that the open space can positively affect housing pricing. However this effect obviously depends on the type of open space. In recent years many researches use the hedonic modeling with application with spatial analysis using geographic information system (GIS). This method has long been used to identify the impact of neighbourhood on residential properties, such as water resources (Lansford and Jones, 1995, Young and Teti, 1984). Moreover, the availability is the key factor of studying the internal effects. As an attribute of transport accessibility the distance to the CBD (Gibbons & Machin, 2003; Bowes & Ihlanfeldt, 2001 etc.) is usually applied. In another paper it was found that moving 300 metres the nearest park increases nearest mean houses price (Cho et al, 2006). It also matters what models were used in previous works. The most common econometric tool here is standard multiple linear regression. Hedonic pricing with spatial lag being correctly used allows estimating the effect of all characteristics on the real estate prices. The spatial-lag model assumes that the spatially weighted average of housing prices in a neighborhood affects the price of each house in addition to the standard explanatory variables of housing and neighborhood characteristics. According to this model the main difference between linear and spatial regressions consists in calculating the weighted matrix (Getis & Aldstadt, 2010).
As for the supermarkets there are many works that studies the effect of their location on housing price. There many approaches that can be ussed to measure the effect of supermarkets and hypermarkets impact. In some recent studies the size of shopping center were estimated. The positive correlation was found between the housing price and the size of the shopping center. R. Sirpal in his work found that the presence of the shopping center has a positive effect on the surrounding residential properties. Large positive impacts on the price of residential property have large shopping centers, as opposed to the small shopping centers.  According to the grocery stores are divided into cathegories. Some of these cathegories are supermarkets and hypermarkets that will be studied in thos work.
The second approach to measure the impact of shopping center is to iclude the distance as variable in the regression. Accorging to F. Des Rosiers the relationship between the increases in the distance to the nearest shopping center has a negative and significant effect. In other work the authors used the distantance to the shopping center as the time people spend to get there (Yu, T. H., Cho, S. H., & Kim, S. G). They divided this time in 3 cathegories: 0-3 min, 3-10, and 10-20 min of driving.  They found the growth in housing prices after the building a shopping center is more significant if driving time to the shopping center from 3 to 10 minutes than 10-20 minutes drive. One of the latest works was about the influence of Walmart on housing price. Walmart actually increases the prices in the range of 2% to 3% for buildings located within half a mile from the shops and 1-2% for the houses located between a half and one mile from the Walmart. The average house price was increased by $ 700 within 0.5 miles from the newly opened Walmart. 
More specifically, in accordance with Addae-Dapaah were found that buyers are willing to pay on average 4.7% more for a location close to the shopping center. Further properties in a radius of 100 meters from the shopping center on average are more expensive by 15%. The cost decreases as the distance of the property from the shopping center.
There are several approaches measuring distance between two objects, which are used in papers. Based on the study of literature, there are three main ways how to measure distances. The first most common way is to calculate the distance measure using the formula of the Euclidean distance. This formula is a consequence of the Pythagorean Theorem to calculate it necessary to have the geographical coordinates of the objects (Tadao Tochio). The second method that usually uses to calculate the distance is the creation of dummy variables (R.Sirpal, Addae-Dapaah) (eg, from 0 to 1 mile, from 1 to 2, etc.) .Other method that was proposed in the article (Yu TH et al, 2012) is a calculation of the distance through the dummy variables for the time that people spend to get to the shopping center. In this paper, the authors have created on the travel time to the supermarket three dummy variables: 0-3 min, 3-10, and 10-20 minutes. In this paper the panel data was used because their main study was focused on studying the variables obtained by multiplying the dummy variables on travel time and the time it took to build a shopping center. 
In the study of the influence of spatial effects, special attention should be paid to the study of the spatial correlation between the objects. The study of spatial correlation is requared to ensure that the resulting estimates are permanent and effective. Spatial autocorrelation appears when the observations are not randomly arranged in the space. For example, in the paper (Hui et al, 2006) studied the effect of spatial autocorrelation. The reason for spatial autocorrelation according to the authors lies in the assumption that the distribution of errors, namely the errors are not always independent and identically distributed. This leads to the fact that the estimates obtained by the method of least square inaccurate and economically incorrectly interpreted. Luc Anselin in his work has shown that it is a model with spatial lag includes additional neighborhood effects that can not be taken into account using non-spatial effects.

Methodology
As I have shown earlier, the main intention of the research is to investigate the effect of the location of supermatkets and hypermarket on housing price. There are various approaches to analising the locations effects. In my study I examine in some detail the approach of evaluating the housing price using the spatial autoregression model. The methodology will take a definite shape as the study is progressing. However I also use the hedonic price regression to compare results wuth spatial regression to approve or decline the privious results which were obtained in literature review. Moreover there are three different approaches s to measure the distance between properties and supermarkets or hypermarkets. I will limit the research to one approach and focus attention on the Euclidean distance. 

Predicted Outcomes
Hopefully, I will be able to find the relationship between location of supermarkets, hypermarkets and the property pricing and to reveal and describe discrepancies with academic literature. I also hope to approve that spatial regression model gives better results than hedonic as it was done in previous works. Conclusions and hypotheses drawn from data analysis may be used as a basis for further research because this work has practical use as far as perm property prices are studied.  Moreover my sample has more than18 000 observations that makes the results reliable and useful for further research of real estate of the city of Perm. 

Limitations of the Research
The most significant innovation is that we can estimate the location effects of housing prices in the city of Perm. However not only supermarkets and hypermarkets can affect price. There are many other grocery stores that may affect housing price but are not included in this research. 	In this area of study much research remains to be done. The research is focused only on small part of srocery stores and other types should be used too. Moreover, there are many location factors that can also affect housing prices and are not included in the research such as the proxomity to the central business district (CBD) or to the nearest park.


