Introduction
The aerial yoga market is emerging and is considered to be popular and perspective. Opening a yoga studio is a good opportunity to run business, since there is a positive trend in the yoga market and an increasing demand for modern sports among young people. The key feature of yoga is that there is special equipment (cloth hammock) used while training. Contrary to the new training method, classical yoga does not imply an upside down position. Aerial yoga is an excellent alternative to a gym and is considered as a potential replacement for traditional workouts. This program is new in Russia, particularly in Perm. Based on the opinions of market experts, the main problems in this area come from the fact that customer demand significantly exceeds supply, and sports clubs do not have enough qualified personnel and variety of training programs.
Due to this, there is a growing interest from entrepreneurs in opening and developing their own businesses, namely aerial yoga studios in Perm. In order to provide high quality services, make profit and develop a business, an entrepreneur needs to plan the general aims of a company and all business processes. Therefore, before starting a business, entrepreneurs must develop a working business plan. Efficient use of business planning tools requires clear understanding of the organization in order to grow it to various sizes. A business plan developed as a complex strategy allows to define the key competences of an organization and to visualize the expected business results through indicators and criteria that serve as a basis for managing operations and controlling results.
Therefore, the purpose of the research is to develop a business plan of an Aerial yoga studio in Perm. It should be noted that this market niche has not been studied yet, thus there is no analytical and economic market data, and due to this the research is relevant and will be a benefit for both existing and future players of the market. To achieve this goal, the following tasks must be completed:
* to define the business plan concept on the basis of literature analysis analyzed literature;
* to describe the structure of the business plan;
* to analyze the yoga studio market, including aerial yoga studios in Russia by using the strategic analysis method;
* to analyze the yoga studio market in Perm, including aerial yoga;
* to conduct competitor analysis;
* to study opinions and preferences of the target audience regarding the forthcoming studio;
* to develop a business model based on theoretical and empirical data.
After these tasks are completed, a quality business plan that will include a finished business model of aerial yoga studio will be developed. In addition, it will consider the value of the business plan in a dynamic market.
The research consists of six parts. The introduction elaborates on the relevance of the research, its purpose and tasks. The theoretical basis, definitions and different approaches  to the necessity of creating a business plan are described in the theoretical background. Parts with the methodology, procedures and expected results show the selected research methods and expected conclusions after the analysis. The limitations of the study describe the limits of applying the research results. References list theoretical sources used in the research.

Theoretical background
This part of the project is meant to examine theoretical studies in the field of business planning. Typically, start-up entrepreneurs are taught that in order to build a successful company, they need to start their business by developing a business plan. According to the definition of Norman M. Scarborough (2012)  a business plan is a document that gives a detailed background of the project and the opportunity to fully evaluate the effectiveness of decisions, planned activities, answer the question of whether to invest in this project. There is a lot of books and articles which describe how to create a plan that allows to build a prosperous business. In addition to the theoretical part, there are companies advising entrepreneurs on how to create successful business plans, which indicates that a plan is necessary to create a startup. However, some experts have questioned the importance of business plans, arguing that the plan is a waste of time because of rapid changes in the business environment. Thus, in order to avoid contradiction, it is necessary to consider various definitions of a business plan, its components, and application cases.
Studying the benefits and disadvantages of business planning is a comprehensive and complex process that can be examined from various perspectives. According to Castrogiovanni (1996), the need to develop a business plan depends on an industry. Several studies have shown that there is a positive link between planning and startup performance, only in those areas where tangible, real products are created. In other cases, for instance, in the IT sector, a business plan will be ineffective because an entrepreneur has little initial information and is often working on a completely new product for the market.
A similar point of view is described by Eric Ries (2011). He suggests that there is a high probability that the business plan is ineffective if entrepreneurs are focusing solely on predictions rather than on real feedback from the business environment. Such companies may not be able to adapt to changes.
However, from another point of view, there are many opinions that a business plan is the foundation of any business, and it must be developed. Based on research carried out by Delmar and Scott (2003), planning has the following advantages: it helps find investors rather quickly, assess the competitive environment, calculate the initial and forecasted costs, signify competitive advantage of the product, assess risks as well as develop marketing plan and work schedule.
A similar approach is presented in an article by Rafael Fern?ndez-Guerrero, Lorenzo Revuelto-Taboada & Virginia Sim?n-Moya (2012). They argue that a business plan has two main purposes: internal and external. The internal goal of a business plan describes the employees of a company. In particular, the top management, which is obliged to start with a precise strategy. The external goal of a business plan considers the investors, money lenders and all the people who may have the ability and desire to invest in the business. Generally, this document describes the main stages of the company's development in a competitive market, accounting for its own and loaned financial funds, material and human resources, and the risks arising during the execution of business projects.
According to the paper of the Bracker, J.S., Keats, B.W., Pearson, J.N. (1998) the heart of any business project is a business idea - a general scheme or a way to make profit and a new business must start from developing a business plan. Writing a plan forces managers to go through every aspect of their start-up and focus on the most important tasks. The plan preparation should be based on a study of the competitive field and trend analysis. An effective business plan consists of the following parts: åõåñutivå summàry, màrkåt ànàlósis, ñîmðànó dåsñriðtiîn, màrêåting and sàlås àñtivitiås, ðrîduñts and sårvicås, îðåràtiîns, funds råquiråd and thåir usås, finànñial dàtà, àpðåndiñes îr åõhibits.
As mentioned previously, the aim of the research is to develop a business plan of an Aerial yoga studio. Based on the goal and tasks, in this study a business plan is considered as a necessary tool for developing a new business. Literature analysis shows that a business plan allows to raise project funding, and also serves as the basis for arranging the organizational structure and internal processes. A business plan enables creating a clear, accessible and structured vision of the lifecycle of an investment project or a business. The process of business planning also implies allocation of future resources and cash flows.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out the study. Firstly, it is necessary to conduct secondary research of literature, with the aim of studying the methods of strategic analysis. This will allow to select the most appropriate methods for the evaluation and analysis of the market.
Secondly, one should analyze the industry in order to develop the company's strategy. For this the model of five competitive forces of Michael Porter will be used. The five forces model is intended to analyze both economic and technological forces that have an impact on the profitability of the industry. Each force is a separate level of competitiveness of goods: the three forces of 'horizontal' competition (the threat of substitute products, thå thråàt îf nåw åntrànts, thå låvål îf cîmpåtitiîn), ànd thå twî fîrñås îf "vårtiñàl" cîmpåtitiîn (thå màrkåt pîwår îf suððliårs ànd thå bàrgàining pîwår îf cînsumårs). This analysis will provide an opportunity to evaluate the investment attractiveness of the industry, identify the development of new activities, and allow to regularly explore opportunities and environmental risks.
Thirdly, it is necessary to assess the intra-industry competition. For this such method as a map of strategic groups will be used. The strategic group is a group of competing firms that are integrated on the basis of similar market position by certain indicators, for instance, such as range, price, quality, service level. The map allows to graphically display the market competition and shows changes and trends in the industry. In branch one group or many competitive teams may be present. The closer the strategic groups, the higher and more intense the competition. In addition, an expert survey is to be carried out for more in-depth evaluation inside the market. It is kind of a survey, in which respondents are experts - highly qualified specialists in a particular field of activity. This method will help identify the most important and complex aspects of yoga market problems, improve the quality of information thanks to the experience and knowledge of experts.
To assess the company's competitiveness on the market the technology of SWOT analysis will be used. The main purpose of the method is to investigate the company's current market position and to structure the information for the development of correct marketing strategy. It represents a table in which strengths (S), weaknesses (W), capabilities (O) and the threats of the company (T) are registered. Further, all the results are compared with each other and the main directions of the company’s development are determined.

Predicted outcomes 
This part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The resulting database will be processed and a set of conclusions will be compiled. The main outcome is that after the market analysis, it is assumed that the market is still unsaturated, and has the potential of the opening and development of the aerial yoga studio.
Based on the complex analysis of the market environment the data set is obtained, which will be used to make up both short and long-term planning strategies. During the marketing analysis of a sports sector in Perm the number of studios, which are engaged in the direction of aerial yoga, will be determined,. Also, it will present a graphical visualization of concentration of yoga studios by districts in Perm. All of this will determine that basically a large proportion of studios is located in the center of Perm, and will identify areas in which the direction of aerial yoga is completely not presented. These areas will automatically become potentially interesting in terms of opening a new studio. In addition to this, the analysis of competitors will determine the pricing policy on the membership cards of the sports center.
The SWOT analysis and Porter's 5 forces will allow to structure internal and external environment, changes which impact on the activities and the development of new business. It is expected that some of the potential threats are low demand at the start of business, the dependence of revenues on the seasonality factor and lack of qualified trainers. Taking into account these threats, an accurate and clear guidance will be developed that will fight or partially solve these problems. Thus, all the results of the studies will be used to improve the efficiency of a new business project, namely the aerial yoga studio.

Limitations of research
The study findings will be bounded by several limitations. Firstly, the study reflects the current market situation only. The number of competitors, consumer relations may change due to various reasons at any point in time. If market conditions change, the results of previous studies may lose relevance.
Secondly, another limitation is that the data can only be applied to the same segment of business. This is due to the fact that all studies are conducted only in the specific area in the city of Perm.
Finally, the last limitation is a focus on the enterprise size. It is assumed that the aerial yoga studio is a small business, consequently, firms that belong to large business segments, or even medium-sized ones will not be able to apply results and conclusions to themselves.