Introduction
The main aim of each modern commercial organization is gaining profit, by satisfying consumer needs. Any company is likely valuable for customers, if it finds and provides the best solution to any customer’s issue. In such condition, where people have a majority of requirements, but lack of skills, abilities or resources,  young entrepreneurs find methods of earning money by facilitating their consumers livelihood. 
There are a lot of trends, which many businesses follow to attract a quantity of customers and to obtain their loyalty. One of the highly important trends on every world market of goods and services is on-consumer orientation. Besides, it is considerably important for both company and customer to succeed in getting the largest value from the good consumption.
Entrepreneurs generate a major number of ideas to provide their customers with more comfortable livelihood and the set of such thoughts is infinite. Several years ago, there was a multitude of companies that simultaneously decided to provide opportunities for humanity to learn foreign languages in comfortable terms. And today almost every person finds it critical to learn foreign languages, since without any special linguistic skills it is unlikely possible to commit several daily life actions, for example communication with people, vacation, reading books and watching movies in original version. 
Lately, parents wish their children to start learning languages from early age, specifically when they are 3-5 years old, because a lot of research demonstrate that in this age children are able to learn and to adopt many skills. Young parents are ready to invest it future of their child and will to pay for it. That is why many educational courses for little children are opened frequently.
As the problem of pre-school education in the foreign languages learning sphere arises and it seems to be actual, there should be a probable solution. Thuswise, the aim of this paper is to provide the most relevant solution by developing a project for the new business through the creation of business model of the private kindergarten with English language learning. 
To achieve the goal, I have set, the following tasks should be accomplished:
1. To explore the literature about business project creation;
2. To run interviews with potential customers;
3. To realize the market analysis;
4. To identify target audience;
5. To measure some financial indicators;
6. To explore the law component of the business;
7. To develop the business model framework;
8. To examine the business model by communicating with potential consumers.
With solving all the above-mentioned tasks, I will be ready to demonstrate a working business project that may be the source of getting profit in future. Additionally, I would like to demonstrate how business model conduces to value co-creation and answer why it is so important on the modern market of services.
As for the structure of this paper, it consists of 4 parts. The first part, called theoretical background, includes important information about strategic methods of business planning and their features. Also this part presents the approach I will use in the practical part of my work. Methodology is the second part of the research proposal and it demonstrates the instruments that are necessary for dealing with the task of developing the new business. Last 2 parts are predicted outcomes and limitations of research, which identify possible results of the paper and complications that may confuse the research.  

Theoretical background
Recently a significant amount of small and medium organizations have been opened. The aim, companies are willing to reach some day, is connected with getting a high profit and gaining a market share. In order to rachive the successful level of profitability and to reduce costs, firms need to plan their business activities by designing a business strategy framework. 
The above-mentioned framework, according to the scientists, is called business plan. According to Professor Nicolescu, the business plan is an enterprise-management method of developing a new business or a significant improvement of the existing business. This process starts with the determination of economic opportunities which identify the objectives, that need to be achieved, resources and activities required, establishing its profitability, that deserves to be supported by potential stakeholders. Consequently, business plan can be described as various operations provided by a single organization to an extent of receiving value. 
Following I. Brad, business plan consists of the answers to several questions below:
1. Who are you?
2. What are you doing?
3. Where from did you come? 
4. Where do you want to go? (Brad, I., 2014)
These questions are extremely abstract and providing answers to them is not enough to develop a business plan. Although we can follow the author in assuming that a business plan can be used for identifying and setting business objectives, development strategies and communicating a message of the firm managers to suppliers, potential investors and financing banks. 
From the other hand, the author Anca Jarmila GU?? suggested, that the only reason of creating a business plan is demonstrating it to investors and financial specialists. Moreover, it was mentioned in the article, that the major importance of the business plan is including business forecast. He also proposed the role of creating a framework as serving the entrepreneur as a business guide. (Gu??, A.J., 2014)
Fore-quoted statement does not contradict the definition given by the first author, I. Brad. It is possible to accept, that business plan is a detailed framework, covered the answers to the following questions: What to produce? How to produce? How to sell? Whom to sell? Where to do it and When?
Entrepreneurs frequently use business model, while creating a business plan to forecast the results of market analysis and promotion. Moreover, for the last 15-20 years business model becomes more relevant approach for developing the new business. This method of projecting a business is said to be innovative, due to the fact that it provides an opportunity to create absolutely new product and to make it competitive strong on the market. According to Christoph Zott and Raphael Amit, business model is needed to decide what set of activities a firm need to start. They propose the following definition of a business plan: the content, structure, and governance of transactions designed so as to create value through the exploitation of business opportunities. 
A business model is consisted of several elements, so-called design elements and design themes: 
1. Activity system content;
2. Activity system structure;
3. Activity system governance.
These elements explain how an organization performs on the market and how interact with stakeholders; how these performances are linked and who performs. Authors suppose, that occasionally managers ought to make all the decisions simultaneously and, consequently, they have to decide what is more preferable for the company.
The design themes are novelty, lock-in, complementarities and efficiency. Each of these four sets of examples shows how firms’ business model design has been shaped according to an overriding design theme, in many cases resulting in models that are significantly different from their original designs, and that have created new value (Zott, C., Amit, R., 2009).
This approach has gained few followers so far, for example Suvi Nenonen, Kaj Storbacka. In their work, they propose an idea, that the main reason of designing a business model, as a part of a business plan, is creating a value for both company and stakeholders. Moreover, the value is co-created by participants. 
The paper provides a common framework, which can be adapted to each type of business. The business model framework, offered by Suvi Nenonen, Kaj Storbacka, contains 12 aspects, required to launch the business.
The scheme is shown as the table, where Design principles, Recourses and Capabilities are across and Market, Offering, Operations, Management are down. Interaction of these aspects provides 12 elements, which generate value. (Neonen, S., Storbaska, K., 2010)
Nowadays, business models can be represented in completely different ways. Osterwalders’s name is well-known today for his idea about the framework of a business model. He presented the business model framework that is used worldwide for today. Osterwalder identified a business model as instruments that contain a set of elements and their relationships that allows entrepreneurs to understand logic of earning money. It is a description of the value a company offers to one or several customers and the structure of the firm and its network of partners for creating, marketing and delivering this value.
Business model framework, or business model canvas by Osterwalder includes 9 segments and each of them determines its part of the organizational processes: Key partners, Key activities, Key resources, Value proposition, Customer relationships, Channels, Customer segments, Cost structure and Revenue streams. This approach has gained a lot of followers so far and every young entrepreneur  learns about business developing by Osterwalder’s work. (Osterwalder, A., 2010)
In my paper I am going to follow Osterwalder’s thoughts about business model developing and, similarly, I will use his idea about business model canvas while designing the framework for my own idea of business.
Articles, presented above, demonstrate the basic ideas of the business plan creation. It is important to analyze more literature on this topic, before designing a detailed business plan for a special single organization. In addition, there is a significance of learning various cases of the other companies’ performances on the market.

Methodology and procedure  
As my research relates to developing a private kindergarten with English language learning, it is important to admit, that my target audience will be young parents with children of 3-5 years old. It is obvious, that starting from this age children are able to start learning languages and to communicate with each other. 
I would prefer approaching this question from the position of business model framework. The most famous type of business framework is business model Canvas, therefore it would be suitable to apply this method to the research. Moreover, the research methodology is going to be based on qualitative methods, including several types of interview – expert interview, in-depth interview, that allow to receive some information by the competitors or possible customers, and analysis – market analysis, competitors advantage analysis, strategic group mapping, positioning map.
I plan to conduct up to more than 50 interviews with parents, using both face-to-face interviews and online interviews to identify possible target audience. Besides, I intend to run about 10 interviews with directors of other private kindergartens to get any data about such type of business. According to the results of the interviews I am going to analyze all the data and present in structured in the appropriate way and to build a business model framework that is the aim of my research. 
In the end I will provide the results, whether this type of business profitable and whether it solves people’ problems.

Predicted outcomes
A standard business model consists of several parts, describing each function of a single business. Hopefully, I will be able to complete this model and apply the results on the real market. Farther, I suggest, that it will be an opportunity to continue working with the results and to use it in the further research. 
I also believe to research and describe the market situation for businessmen, who attempt to launch a new company; therefore the research has an opportunity to be valuable for entrepreneurs. 
As business model design is known as innovative approach of developing a new business, I predict to succeed in receiving some innovative information and solutions. In nearest future each business developer will be able to put theory of business model on practice. Moreover, I expect that the application of this business model framework will improve my understanding of such business functions, as planning and organizational function.
Comprehensive analyses of data are essential to provide credible results. As I decided to run more than 50 interviews, I realize, that I have to deal with a huge amount of information, that need careful analysis. However, it is still possible to. normalize the results in one framework, that allows working with data further. Therefore, the intention of this study is to explore how business should be organized and how to make it profitable

Limitations of research
Current the results may be limited by the fact that potentially competitive companies may provide with a lack of reliable information or refuse to answer the question while interviewing. One more thing is consumers’ refusal to be asked due to their disinterest in research subject. 
On the other hand, I am able to find any information about private kindergartens or other child centers in the Internet, but all along of the innovation view to the problem, I will probably bump into non-availability of data, that I plan to apply. 
Moreover, there are many gaps in theoretical and practical understanding of these business model development processes. A lot of young entrepreneurs fail while analyzing dataset, because of a great amount of not structured information.
Besides, it is difficult to find a big group of young mothers who will be ready to participate in interview and in estimation of minimal valuable product.
The last thing I would like to add, that I still believe that the research will answer my expectation and I should end on this optimistic note.