Introduction 
The present investigation focuses on studying the impact of legislative measures on alcohol consumption. A variety of beverages like tobacco have a special place associated with serious negative effects among consumer goods.  Alcohol abuse is a long-time problem especially in our country. In Russia the indicators related to this problem such as violence (murder and suicide), mortality (from alcohol poisoning and accidents) and life expectancy are the worst in the world. However, do we have to take into account some external factors? State regulation of the alcohol industry should ideally minimize harm in order not only to fill the budget revenues from the highly profitable production. In many countries public health policy would like to limit consumption of beverages. One of the most commonly used measures is to restrict the days and time when alcohol is available in stores. Therefore, in this paper, to be more precise, the main question examined is how legislative measures affect the alcohol demand.
Consequently, to understand such issue, it is necessary to model whole product categories and demand for this product. Consider demand as an economic principle that describes a consumer's desire and willingness to pay a price for a specific good or service. By this means, the purpose of this research is to model the demand for beverages under government restrictions. Investigation objectives for accomplishment a desired goal are the following:
to make a literature review on the demand formation;
to perform data analysis;
to develop an appropriate model; 
to draw conclusions based on the results. 
Thus, I need to keep this goal in mind to reach an understanding of how legislative measures affect the alcohol demand.
Compared with other works in this field, my research has its own specific in method and in data used. Fortunately, the automatic recording of purchases at the point of sale opens new opportunities for model appraisal. Data now are being collected by scanners at the cashier’s desk in supermarkets is scanner data. I will here apply scanner-collected data on alcohol purchases to calibrate a multinomial logit choice model and examine both its scientific quality as a representation of customer behavior and its potential usefulness for decision-making. The sample is based on the purchases data of beverages from 2009 to 2015. For more precise results the research was bounded to the territory of Perm region and the investigation base was limited to one of the largest retailers in Perm. The multinomial logit model computes the probability of choosing an alternative as a function of the attributes of all the alternatives available. Such type of methodology implies using of utility and probability functions. Utility function measures welfare or satisfaction of a consumer as a function of consumption of real goods, such as food, clothing and composite goods rather than nominal goods measured in nominal terms. A probability distribution function is some functional relation that may be used to define a particular probability distribution. The research design foregrounds concern about using such specification as the random-parameters logit (mixed logit) relaxes the IIA (independence from irrelevant alternatives) assumption by allowing parameters in the conditional logit model to be normally or lognormally distributed. 
The research proposal consists of the following parts. The first part is the theoretical background which discusses current approaches in the area studied. The next part is methodology and procedure illustrating the model specification and data employed. The last part is predicted results, limitations and suggestions for future research.

Theoretical background
This part of the project proposal will explain the search process in reviewing the vast literature on demand study. It was found that a lot of research is devoted to such product category as alcohol. The demand study for alcohol is quite attractive since this product is not only a habit but also in high demand. Within a long historical time scale our country has long been famous for its love of the spirits as Nemtsov (2000) mentioned. This research is worth pursuing. A few years ago, various regions have been putting and toughening local regulations for alcohol sale hours. The effect of these policies is uncertain in a specific social and economic environment featured by  a poor observance of the law.   
Public authorities have already introduced and tightened restrictions on the night sales of alcoholic beverages since 2006. Surely, the efficacy of these limitations was initially unclear. Until 2014, it was possible to buy beer or another beverage with strength less than 5% during the night. However, in 2014 according to Federal Law 171-FZ, dated 22 Nov. 1995, “on state regulation of production and turnover of ethyl alcohol, alcohol and alcohol products and on the limitation of consumption (drinking) alcohol products” was adjudged limit to retail sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages. It is not allowed for retail sales of alcoholic beverages from 23 p.m. to 8 a.m. local time. But are these restrictions effective? Do they affect the alcohol consumption?
Certainly, many researchers addressed an alcohol consumption topic using various methods to different types of data. The results of foreign studies indicate the efficiency of alcohol restrictions preventing alcohol abuse and its consequences. The articles studied mainly divided into two groups. 
Some researchers consider legislative measures to have helped consumers to decrease alcohol consumption. Hinnosaar (2016) analyzed the relationship between inconsistency and alcohol sales. The author’s intention was to answer the following question: whether time inconsistent consumer preferences can provide a justification for restrictions on alcohol sales time. To address this question, he estimated a demand model, which allows a fraction of consumers to be time inconsistent, using scanner data from beer purchases and other shopping behavior. Stated differently, he investigated the behavior of people who drink alcohol today and promise themselves that they will not do it tomorrow. However, when the next day comes their behavior is repeated. Model construction was based on beer sales scanner data and covered the period from 2004 to 2014 and included data from 10 states that have liberal alcohol laws. The main hypothesis put forward by the author says that alcohol sales restriction reduces its consumption. This assumption was confirmed by the study as well as the results showed the lack of self-control in 16% of regular beer buyers or 3% of all buyers. Norstrom and Skog (2003) compared the results of alcohol sales restrictions on Saturdays in some states and without sales limitations in other states using autoregressive integrated moving average model. They used monthly data on the sale of beer, wine and spirits. It was found that increasing the availability of sales on Saturdays leads to an increase in alcohol consumption. Skorobogatov (2016) studied the effect of the spirits sales time limit in respect of the alcohol consumption. The results lend support to the public health perspective in that the increased accessibility to alcohol rendered by Saturday opening also seems to have increased consumption. In the studies above various types of data and different methodologies were used. This research will be built on such type of data as Hinnosaar (2016) used but none of the work is not carried out an individual choice study of loyalty cards. Moreover, the assumption of the authors confirmed, and the placement of such issue as how legislative measures influence alcohol consumption in this study is warranted.
Other researchers supposed abolition of sales ban leads to increase in sales. Stehr (2007) attempted to consider several issues: the Sunday ban reversal effect on the sales of beer and spirits in the state; the impact of lifting the ban on price changes in the degree of the state border crossing. To achieve this goal, the author used data on sales, taxes, unemployment, income per capita etc. Model with fixed effects is used. The following results were obtained. Demand for beer and spirits is price elastic. Although the abolition of the ban on Sunday sales leads to increase the sales of alcoholic beverages, most of the increase in sales volume of beer is associated with the continuation of existing trends in those states that have abolished restrictions. Approximately 80 percent of the sales growth of alcoholic beverages to the removal of the ban on Sunday is the result of self-consumption-increase, while the remaining 20 percent of the growth associated with changes in foreign purchases. Yoeruek (2014) also investigated the relationship between legalization of Sunday alcohol sales and alcohol consumption in the United States. He analyzed state-level per capita consumption of beer, wine and spirits using difference-in-differences econometric methods. 
As it has been previously noted, alcohol is an addictive product. According to Becker and Murphy (1988), addiction is the fact that an individual can acquire the habit to the product if an increase in this product consumption at present leads to an increase in its consumption in the future. However, we must distinguish habit and addiction as well as a habit leads to complementarity of the past and current consumption but does not mean that an increase in future consumption will lead to an increase in current consumption. As for addiction, there are two types of consumption patterns for addictive goods: under preferences consideration and possible future consideration in the current behavior. It is necessary to consider the latter type of models, which, in turn, divided into short-sighted and rational behavior. Myopic addiction means ignoring the impact of the future for current consumption. As Becker, Grossman and Murphy (1990) supposed that human behavior depends only on past consumption and the impact of the current consumption of the good for the future and the future utility of consumption are neglected. Rational addiction involves the past, present and future consumption. By rationality is meant to maximize the time-sequential utility according to Becker and Murphy (1988). In practice, the rational behavior coefficients of the past and future consumption have the same sign, while the myopic coefficient of future consumption is close to zero.
All known approaches are based on US data, while it is quite interesting to applicate available methodologies for alcohol consumption analysis in Russia, namely, to apply them to individual data on alcohol consumption in Perm. We can follow Hinnosaar, Norstrom, Skog, and Skorobogatov in assuming the central hypothesis: governmental restrictions help to reduce alcohol consumption. 

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out study, giving special emphasis to the description of data. 
There is an astonishingly broad contemporary consensus on studying consumer preferences. Indeed, the individual, choosing a product, considers several factors as the selected product must fully meet buyers’ needs. A rigorous technique in the influence of numerous characteristics of the alternatives examination is constructing econometric models. Basically, four methods are used for modeling consumer demand and estimating the demand function:
Dynamic optimization models;
Time-series analysis;
Discrete choice analysis;
Structural models of multiple choice for the non-uniform goods.
Guadagni is known to be an initiator of using DCA (discrete choice analysis) methodology on scanner data, which represents coffee purchases.  A methodologies analysis used in the relevant foreign papers showed that in current study it is advisable to use discrete choice models since they allow the most accurate process description of making a purchase and the most detailed structure assessment of consumer preferences in the selection of goods. Also, this procedure to a certain extent is an evolving one. The rest methods do not answer some questions posed or have strict constraints on the results achieved or do not suitable for data structure reasons.
In this proposal scanner data is used. Scanner data usually come in two forms: store data and panel data. Store data provide individual item sales and price by store by week. Panel data present histories of purchases for a sample of households. A cooperating household displays an identification card at checkout. The store clerk keys the household number into a cash register, thereby causing the purchase record to be segregated and stored. Over time this creates a longitudinal customer history. The main advantage of this type of data is that they directly record the sales act of the individual customer at the item level. The Sample is based on the purchases data of alcohol (beer and vodka) from 2009 to 2015. The paper’s key feature is limitation the investigation base to one of the largest retailers in Perm. I suppose to analyze the data on the basis of common sense: track any patterns and check whether there has to be a shift in demand. Moreover, descriptive statistics will be offered.
The research design foregrounds concern about using the following specification. The random-parameters logit (mixed logit) relaxes the IIA assumption by allowing parameters in the conditional logit model to be normally or lognormally distributed. This model assumes that errors are type II extreme-value distributed but the parameters have a normal distribution. Consequently, the utility of alternative j is (1) where and . The combined error is now correlated across alternatives, whereas the errors ?_ij alone are were not. Then conditional on the unobservable vi and wji, we have a conditional logit model with (2)
Then, unrestricted probability of choosing alternative j defined as (3)
The maximum likelihood estimation method (MLE) is the basis of specification assessment. The MLE is based on p_ij, which also requires integrating out v_i and w_ji, a high-dimensional integral. The methodology will take a definite shape as the study is progressing.

Predicted outcomes
Hopefully, I will be able to create a rich picture of results later. Conclusions and hypotheses drawn from my data may be used as a basis for further research dedicated to modeling the demand for alcohol consumption. As I have shown earlier, the main intention of the research is to investigate whether legislative intervention is justified and effective. Generally, it is expected that the hypothesis about a reduction of alcohol consumption with the introduction of legislative restrictions will confirm. Moreover, the application of random-parameters logit model will improve our understanding of demand modeling. 

Limitations of research
It should be mentioned about some limitation of this study:
the analysis is based on sales of one retail chain;
a competitive environment and other stores, including specialized ones, at the place of location are not considered;
the sample is based on people who often buy alcohol in this chain store /on the purchases that are made precisely in one retail chain;
the ability to shift consumer’s attention to other stores is not taken into consideration;
the fact that the purchases may take place in some stores only on weekends (larger) and in others only on weekdays (at the place of residence) is not taken into account.
But I am putting forward to end on an optimistic note and offering suggestions for future research. Firstly, it is necessary to compare alcohol consumption in hypermarkets and supermarkets.  Secondly, the sample should be increased by adding other types of alcohol. Thus, overcoming the limitations and the use of these suggestions will specify consumer preferences. 