Introduction
Background
We are at the beginning of the fourth industrial revolution that is fundamentally changing the way we live, work, and relate to one another. Out investigation comprises one of some forming parts that phenomenon. This is the internet of things.  In modern conditions it is difficult not to notice the speed of occurrence of new products, services, and, what is more, markets. However, they can die as fast as they emerge. 
Recently the market was characterized by an intense competition increasing in traditional business. Now the struggle for the consumer enters the new platform, known as online space and social networks. In addition, marketplace, a new market segment, is gaining popularity. 
In our research, we would like to focus on marketplace that is place in online reality, where buyers and sellers make commercial transactions. Firstly, society is becoming more active, and thus, one person can play the role of a supplier of services, and at the same time be a consumer of a large number of goods and services. Secondly, the person, being in the conditions of activity and workload, has lack of time he can spend on searching the necessary commodities. As a consequence, the business is aware of the need for a variety of mechanisms that identify the product from the competition and attract consumers.
When the product life cycle is getting shorter, companies are beginning to realize that attracting clients does not guarantee prosperity; they need to form a long term partnership with society.

Problem statement
The research is a project that has an applicative character. Thus, the ultimate goal is developing referral programs for online applications branding.
Setting this goal has led to the following tasks:
1) The study of the theoretical aspects of the topic in the framework,
2) The study of existing models of brand creation and identifying the model, which will be used in our work,
3) Selection of appropriate methods for the research design creation,
4) The collection and analysis of data,
5) Elaboration of recommendations on the brand establishment.
The object is online application for mobile phones. 
The subject is brand attributes for online application. 
Professional Significance.
The main practical importance of our project is to create a sustainable brand for particular application that will attract users and allow the application to develop successfully.
The practical significance of the study is the ability to use the research results in the practice of creating brand in the companies with a similar model. 
Also, this work may be of interest to the heads of organizations, professionals engaged in the development problems of brand management and branding, to brand managers, involved in the creation and development of brands in Russia.

Literature review
Within our field of investigation there are some key concepts, which are essential for understanding. There are «brand», «branding» and «perception of the consumers». These concepts have varying degrees of scrutiny due to their period of appearance in the life of society.
Branding as a scientific discipline is still very young and it is at the formative stage. First significant foreign scientific works on branding theory began to appear only in the 90s of the last century. In Russia the active development of branding theory began to appear only ten years ago.
Theoretical aspects of branding are fully represented in the scientific works of both foreign and domestic researchers: David Allen Aaker, Philip Kotler, Jean-No?l Kapferer, Alexandr Mudrov, Phillip Sharkov, Alexandr Godin. 
As for origin of the brand concept, there are no disputes among researchers. The first time the concept of "brand" was mentioned in the 10th century in England. At that time it characterized a stigma which was burned on cows. So it meant affiliations to the owner of the animal. Even at that time the brand has been the method of interaction with the general public.
The next step of brand development is medieval period. With the artisans increase English government forced all manufacturers to mark their personal products with a help of trademarks. This allowed to control counterfeiting incidents. So, the brand became a prototype of modern corporate responsibility.
According to the American Marketing Association, «brand is name, term, sign, symbol or design or a combination of all of this intended to identify the goods or services of one seller or group of sellers and to distinguish the goods or services from the goods or services of competitors»( Kotler, 2010, p. 43).
David Aaker, the head of Prophet 3 (a successful company operating in the field of branding), expressed the same opinion: "Brand is a distinctive name and/or symbol, whose purpose is to allocate goods and services of one producer from the mass of its competitors' products and services" (Aaker, 1991, p. 21).
However we should criticize the previous two definitions. If we draw a conclusion from these ones and define a brand only as a kind of visual image and words, the expression "to build a strong brand" will be signify only an eye-catching style and a logo, backed by a witty text. But if it was a true reflection of reality, marketers and PR-managers would not be so high-demanded in the market. So that, this approach cannot be applied in contemporary conditions. Many experts point out the absence of the man and the process of association in their theory, which must be presented in this concept.
Since our research pays special attention to the perception of the brand, we need to find a definition of "brand" that would distinguish the consumer, because the consumer mind is the paramount importance in considering this issue.
Scott M.Davis (2001) stated that the consumer has no relationship with the product, but a relationship with the brand. The brand is a set of promises. It implies trust, consistency and certain expectations. The strongest brands of the world occupy the area in the mind.
Given statement is more close to the truth. It reminds that the brand does not exist in the company's headquarters, it exists in the minds of consumers. Speaking briefly, the brand is how people think about you.
The author (Keller, 2010 p.18) of the book "Brand Warfare: 10 Rules for Building the Killer Brand» mentioned the following definition: "A brand is more than advertising or marketing. That's all that comes to mind to a person about the product, when he sees it or hears the name of the logo".
We stopped on Charlie Brumer`s approving, CEO Interbrand Schecter manager, that is the most suitable for our work to describe the essence of the brand. He believes that "We define the brand as a trademark, which takes in a clear and meaningful set of values and attributes in the eyes of the consumer. The product is made in a factory. But it becomes a brand only if the set becomes tangible, imperceptible and psychological factors. The main thing to remember is that brands are not created by the manufacturer. They exist only in the mind of the consumer" (Kotler, 2009, p.15).

Methodology and procedure
The following methods will be used for the study: the method of theoretical analysis of literature, synthesis, comparative and functional analysis, quantitative and qualitative research methods.
The empirical base of the study is the results of a sociological survey, as well as data collected during focus groups conducted by the author of the study. Theoretical analysis of the literature method involves the study of approaches and models of branding, marketplace segment, and measuring perception of consumers.
The most appropriate models and approaches for application in practice of our work will be selected with a help of generalization.  The study and analysis of the branding policy existing applications - competitors will be conducted with a help of comparative functional analysis. These findings are particularly important to differentiate our product among other similar.
To complete the picture we will use both quantitative and qualitative methods. They will be held simultaneously. However, firstly we will apply qualitative approach in order to create a more thorough completion of a questionnaire for the quantitative method.
Since the branding concept is directly related to the consumers’ perception, it is necessary to turn to the appropriate models. The Service Quality technique (SERVQUAL) will be used as the quantitative methodology. This procedure helps to measure the importance of certain aspects in the consumer consciousness.
The results will help to understand which aspects of brand building are more significance, and which ones are not necessary for spending a lot of resources.  The focus group technique is a qualitative method. Direct communication with respondents will reveal deeper factors.

Predicted outcomes
This research project expects to have following outcomes by the end of the project. 
1) A careful study of the theoretical aspects of branding,
2) An integrated model creation that is applicable to our project,
3) Development of a methodology for the study,
4) Creation a rich picture of the competitors’ activity operating in the market ,
5) Accumulating knowledge of consumers’ needs and demands concerning our product,
6) Building a concept based on competitor analysis and study consumer’s perception,
7) Developing  a strong brand on the basis of applied patterns and research,
8) Publication of report of the research project.
The practical implications are:
1) Attracting customers and a formation of the user base,
2) A strong brand rand in the consumers’ minds  leads to the fact that people are beginning to advertise our product themselves,
3) Increasing number of transactions through the app,
4) The consumer loyalty,
5) Attracting investors,
6) Monetization,
7) The opening of new directions.

Limitation of research
Limitations are shortcomings that we as researchers cannot control. Although this research is trying to be carefully prepared and to reach its aims, there are still some unavoidable limitations.
First of all, there is the time limit.
Secondly, we do not have many years of experience of conducing researches and producing academic papers of such a large size individually. Moreover, we also do not have an extensive experience in primary data collection.
Thirdly, quantitative research method involves structured questionnaire with close ended questions. It leads to limited outcomes outlined in the research proposal. So the results cannot always represent the actual occurring, in a generalised form. Also, the respondents have limited options of responses, based on the selection made by the researcher.
Finally, due to the fact that we use almost foreign literature, it may be not completely adapted for our internal market. 