Introduction
At present, the study of alcohol consumption is a higly circulated topic in the academic community. First and foremost reason is that in the last few decades the level of alcohol consumption in largely increased, though the alcohol is a specific good.  It means that its active consumption leads to negative consequences. It is well-known that a certain percent of people’s mortality is due to alcohol consumption. For example, according to some estimates, in Russia alcohol consumption directly or indirectly causes the premature death of 400 to 700 thousand people a year. Diseases of the internal organs and the cardiovascular system, developed in the process of consumption, accidents caused by driving a vehicle while intoxicated, poor-quality alcohol poisoning become a cause of death.
The problem of negative alcohol consumption’s impact occurs worldwide. Researchers from different countries have studied the dynamics of alcohol consumption, searched the determinants of the alcohol demand, and revealed different behavior patterns of certain alcohol beverages. All these issues were investigated primarily to determine the correct strategy policy. In the past few decades all over the world there have been many anti-alcohol campaigns, which, however, were not obviously successful.
In particular such studies were carried out in Russia since in our country this issue is extremely relevant. For instance, in 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in its report named Russia as one of the leading countries in the number of deaths somehow caused by the consumption of alcoholic drinks: according to OECD data, it is our country where approximately 500 thousand deaths of more than three million of recorded worldwide every year occur.  
Based on the above, this issue still needs an active learning on the part of researchers since the dynamics of alcohol consumption in Russia has no tendency to decrease. This is caused by the fact  that often the results obtained by researchers are contradictory, so common among the authors approach is to calculate the elasticity of alcohol consumption  as well as cross-elasticities for different types of alcohol. However, the calculated values vary from paper to paper depending on the data and methods used. Furthermore, it is proved that the results for various countries also differ from each other.
Possible reason for these results is that the majority of investigations require homogeneity of consumer preferences, while a number of authors have shown that this assumption is not supported by real data. In this way this work is expected to take into account the diversity of consumer preferences and make another attempt to identify stable patterns and come to results that can be trusted.
Thus, we want to reply the research question: whether there is heterogeneity of consumer preferences for alcohol consumption in Russia. To meet this goal the following tasks will be fulfilled:
1. to examine the key works by subject area;
2. to collect data and conduct its primary analysis;
3. to construct a model of dependence alcohol consumption on various factors;
4. to interpreter the results and compare them with previously obtained by other authors.
The work is divided into several sections. Theoretical background provides an analysis of main relevant literature on the subject under discussion, highlights the main trends in the subject area. We describe the data used and the selected method in section named Methodology and procedure. The two last sections show the expected results and key constraints.

Theoretical background
Studies of the alcohol demand appeared in the middle of the XX century and have been being conducted until now.  During this time, researchers have used a variety of approaches to obtain quantified demand and some approaches have become standard. For example, several levels are conventionally distinguished in the structure of alcohol consumption: the probability of individual consumption of good, frequency of consumption and the volume of individual consumption. The analysis of each level allows us to understand the consumer behavior from different positions, but the volume of individual alcohol consumption remains the most modeled. Perhaps a prevalence of this technique is caused by the fact that this indicator is most often exposed to state regulation measures.
Many papers are devoted to the identification of the alcohol demand determinants. For now it is established that the alcohol demand negatively depends on the price of alcohol and has a quadratic dependence on income (Yen, 1994; Grossman et al., 1996). An analysis of these economic factors is a basis in problem area. Moreover, the authors examine a wide range of socio-demographic factors. Researchers are studying the effect of individual characteristics such as gender, marital status, education level, employment in the labor market, etc. Thus, Bobak et al. (1999) finds that in Russia some factors affect men’s and women’s alcohol consumption in different way: in particular, the amount of alcohol consumed by man depends on his status in the labor market and marital status, when for women it is a level of education that matters. Many authors concur that a link between alcohol consumption and cigarette smoking exists (Jones, 1989; Aristei and Pieroni, 2010); according to Jones (1989), cigarettes and alcoholic drinks are strong complements.
There are studies that explored the impact of the economic crisis on the alcohol consumption, but no definitive results have been achieved. This fact is explainable: on the one hand, the crisis has a negative impact on the emotional and psychological state of the population that must inevitably lead to an increase in alcohol consumption. At the same time it is an obvious thing that the level of the population income is reduced in the crisis year, so that individuals seem to be able to buy fewer goods than before. In this respect the authors do not have a common point of view. In practice both searches that confirm the increase in alcohol consumption in the crisis years (Brenner and Mooney, 1983; Pierce et al., 1994) and those that prove reducing the demand for such periods (Ruhm and Black, 2002) exist. Such contradiction in the results leads us to the idea of ??heterogeneity of consumer preferences: Ruhm and Black (2002) identified two groups of consumers - "light" and "drunken" - and showed the real difference in behavior between these groups. Thus, the consumption of alcohol among the "lungs" of consumers is growing during the crisis while the "drunken" behavior demonstrates quite the opposite strategy. Catalano et al. (1993) used a different classification of alcohol consumers: he finds that new unemployed individuals stimulate the growth of consumption of alcohol, while the employed ones tend to consume less, and the total effect in the crisis years is not obvious.
In view of the above, it is clear that consumers behave differently when consuming alcohol while the majority of works based on the assumption of preferences’ homogeneity. However, considering that consumers’ preferences are heterogeneous, consumers are likely to have different sensitivities to the price. Therefore, the real effect of government actions on the price is not always coinciding with the expected. The striking example is the state of Russian illegal alcohol market in the past few years. In addition to a rise in alcohol price, caused by the economic situation in the country, there has been a gradual increase in the minimum retail price for vodka. This fact has become an incentive for consumers to switch to other types of alcohol and go to the black market. Such inefficiency of state policy could be due to the fact that the government does not take into account the difference in consumers’ reactions to change in alcohol prices.
Another sign of the consumer preferences’ heterogeneity comes out the difference in the consumption of different alcoholic beverages. Therefore the common approach among researchers is to examine the dependence of alcohol consumption not in total amount but in the context of different types of alcoholic beverages (Clements and Johnson, 1983; Gao et al., 1995). The division into types varies among the papers, but it is an allocation of three types of alcohol (wine, vodka and beer) that occurs in most studies. This strategy is based on the results of such authors as Clements and Johnson (1983), Gao et al. (1995), who confirmed the difference in the consumption of these three groups of alcohol empirically. There is no clear conclusions though about complementarity or substitutability these types of alcohol. In spite of the fact that many studies have focused on this issue, their results are not consistent with each other. Clements  and Selvanathan (1991) refers to all three types of alcohol substitutes, while in the next work concluded that wine and beer can be called complement goods. The last statement is consistent with the results obtained by Chang and Bettington (2001). In the same time Russian authors Andrienko and Nemtsov (2005) found that only beer and vodka are the substitutes. Such difference in results is partly due to the use of empirical data from different countries, however, another reason for this results’ variation again the heterogeneity of consumer preferences can be called.
Eventually, many of the given above results points that the heterogeneity of consumers preferences is an important factor in the study of the alcohol demand. So in this paper the authors will try to prove the existence of consumers’ heterogeneity in the Russian alcohol market. To do this, the study will analyze the impact of various factors on alcohol consumption in the context of different segments of population.
In addition to all of the above it should be noted that alcohol is a commodity of addiction, i.e. consumers have certain patterns of behavior in relation to it. This feature formed the basis for a theory formulated by Becker and Murphy (1988) and later called as theory of addiction. Today there are two types of addiction: myopical and rational one. The first means that the current consumption of good is guided by its past consumption. In a practice it is shown as follow: rising in the past alcohol consumption stimulates the growth of the current consumption (Becker and Murphy, 1988; Grossman et al., 1993; Andrienko and Nemtsov, 2005). The second type of addiction suggests that rational individual has some idea about the future alcohol consumption and, depending on this idea, he adjusts the level of current consumption. The basic way to consider this phenomenon is to include alcohol consumption in the past and the future periods as explanatory variables in a model.

The methodology and procedure
Feature of this work to the previous is applying a specific approach called a method of the quantile regression. This instrument allows us to take into account the heterogeneity of consumers. This method is not widespread in the scientific community because of its novelty; however, it allows to obtain reliable results and enables easy interpretation of them. So, Chernozhukov et al. (2015) could prove the difference in consumer behavior in US by use this method: in low quantile, i.e. for people, who consume alcohol in smaller amounts, alcohol is a normal good, while in the highest quantile it become an inferior good.
Thus, the use of this method is due to the fact that it is exactly appropriate for research purposes. While classical regression allows us to estimate how the average value of the dependent variable depends on the selected factors, quantile regression permits conclusions for the entire consumer distribution. In our case, it is possible to trace the difference in the behavior of those individuals who consume small amounts of alcohol and those who prefer to consume this good in large quantities.
The amount of alcohol, consumed by the respondent, is supposed to take as the dependent variable. An analysis will be conducted in the context of three types of alcohol: vodka, wine, beer. The following parameters will be considered as determinants of demand: the prices of all three types of alcohol, various socio-economic indicators of the consumer, such as gender, age, availability of education, etc.; prices of other goods, the dynamics of past and future consumption.
The model will be estimated on the RLMS-HSE data, which include data from surveys of households and individuals, produced in the framework of an international research project of HSE and CJSC "Demoscope" with the participation of the Population Center at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on and the Institute of Sociology. There are a series of annual representative surveys of households and individuals. Data represent the unbalanced panel: there are individuals in the sample who are present during the whole period of monitoring as well as those individuals who fall randomly into the sample and falls from it similarly. The data contain information on household composition, socio-demographic characteristics of household members, the costs and income of the household and their structure.

Predicted outcomes
The authors expect that the heterogeneity of consumers’ preferences will be confirmed, i.e. a significant difference will be found in the influence of factors on different consumers’ segments. If this authors’ assumption will be proved, it will mean that any impact on the determinants of alcohol demand will cause a mixed consumers’ response. First of all, this result will be useful for the government, as they can be the basis for administration or adjustment of the governmental action, regulating the alcohol consumption in the country. Moreover, the consequence of this result will be an understanding of the scientific community the fact that the assumption of consumers’ homogeneity is outdated and limiting for modern research.
 In addition, the authors suggest that the pricing model will show the difference in patterns of consumer behavior for different alcohol types. Perhaps the different effects of addiction will be found to different types of alcohol. One possible result can be a proof of substitutability or complementarity of different alcoholic beverages.

Limitations of research
In the process of estimating the model a problem of a prices’ endogeneity may arise. An endogeneity can be generated by the fact that we cannot monitor the actual price at which the customer makes a purchase. Prices which were named by the consumer during the survey are available for authors only. This fact may lead to bias in the estimation of model parameters. This limitation can be overcome using instrumental variables, such as average price by region or price index formed excluding prices at a given time for a given individual.