Introduction
One hundred years ago The Great October revolution took place in Russia and resulted in the substitution of market institutions for central-planning ones at a greater territory of the Russian Empire. After The Second World War most countries of Central and Eastern Europe fell under political and military influence of The Soviet Union. Eventually, central-planning institutions were implemented in these countries, too. There are plenty of papers about the lack of efficiency in central-planning economies and ultimately the fall of oil prices in 1980s was a shock that USSR’s economy cannot stand.  About twenty five years ago these counties started the inverse path to market institutions and took «transition economies» name.
All the countries follow the same path: first they suffer from transformational recession (a fall of production with high inflation rate) which was followed by recovery growth (rapid growth of economy on a basis of market institutions). The problem is that this growth was so diverse among transition economies and twenty five years on we can observe a significant divergence of economic development. For example, GDP per capita of Poland grew from 6 295 $ in 1989 to 27 715 $ in 2016 whereas in contrast Moldavia’s GDP per capita increased from 2 229 $ in 1992 to just 5 108 $ in 2016. My research question is devoted to understand the sources of such a dramatic divergence. 
In 2008 the World Bank concluded that openness of economy is the main factor of the economic growth for many countries. Moreover, a wide range of scientists mention a crucial role of democratization.  In this paper I am going to investigate whether this is relevant to transition economies or not upon their specific conditions – it is meant to be the goal of my research. Besides, I will use variables of this processes which are not often used in this field of science. Firstly, although the overwhelming majority of papers which discuss aspects of democracy consider it as a level I will employ a stock concept of democratization as Gerring did in a 2004 article. Secondly, under openness of economy I will use relatively new Index of Economic Globalization which demonstrated its explanatory power (Dreher, 2005).
These variables respond to my research question. In particular, I anticipate a positive influence of them on GDP per capita indicator. In order to verify this hypothesis I will built an econometric model. To be more precise Ordinary Least Squares method with fixed effects seems to be the most appropriate method among possible alternatives.  Moreover, I will make a series of robustness checks described in Grood’s 2002 article. 
Nevertheless, I expect a structural shift which may be stems from the presence of natural resources in a range of the countries, so the economic prosperity has no relationship with democratization there. To test the subsidiary hypothesis I am going to divide countries according to the presence of natural resources. Then, by means of the Chow econometric test I will accept or reject this subsidiary hypothesis.
    
Theoretical background
The socialist economy is based on the theory of Karl Marx, where the main statements are the abolition of private property and the substitution of market co-ordination by plan. First, serious problems have been concealed by the mass expropriation of property and the transfer of resources from village to town. Nevertheless, from the beginning of the 60s of the XXth century it was not enough. Inefficiency of socialist institutions was described by many authors, such as Mancur Olson, who discussed the loss of control over the bureaucratic system in his 1997 book. According to his opinion, without a control over the system the level of efficiency dramatically decreased. Among the most illustrative examples I would mention the fact that soviet cars’ cost of production exceeded their selling price. Also, instead of hard budget constraints socialist countries had soft budget constraints (Kornai, 1979), which led to a distortion of the incentive system. 
Taken all in all, it is impossible to overestimate Yegor Gaidar’s detailed discussion on the topic. In a fundamental book «The long time» he paid attention to the fact that even during the lifetime of Marx his theory become contradictory. Marx saw the foundation for the future revolution in the impoverishment of the proletariat, but in the 60th years of XIX century real incomes of workers began to grow and conditions of labor soften, too. Therefore, continuing the idea of ??Yegor Gaidar, the socialist experiment seems to be the biggest anomaly in the economic history of the XX century. This is a key idea of this study. 
The majority of papers on the subject are devoted to the process of reforms in transition economies, to their composition and consequences. However, it leads to a narrowing of the horizons and the predominance of short-term and medium-term periods over the long-term. This research presents a study of long-term development in transition economies and the development determinants are considered to be the factors underlying the growth in non-socialist economies.
According to a large body of literature on the topic, the most important factors are democratization and openness of the economy. Along with the minimalistic definition made by Josef Schumpeter, democracy is a competition among elites for the allegiance of the people. Here, both theoretical and empirical studies in the field are observed. Theoretically, a positive impact of democracy was described by Mancur Olson through his concept of “a stationary bandit”. However, empirical studies are contradictory. 
On the one hand, a number of scientists found a negative or zero relationship between the level of democracy and economic growth (Barro, 1996). They examined the impact of democracy “today” on development “tomorrow”. I think that such an approach contradicts the thesis of Douglass North, which comes down to the fact, that the economic future of the country is based on its past (North, 1994). Therefore, it is proposed to consider the effect of democracy “yesterday” on the development “tomorrow”. This approach is reflected in the work of Gerring, who shed a new light on the issue of understanding the democratization. He first introduced the concept of democracy stock. Gerring said that democracy has better impact on the accumulation of the four types of capital: physical, social, human and political, which in its turn, have a positive effect on the economic development. Under this approach, a stable democracy in the long-term perspective has a positive effect on the development of countries. Among the relatively recent work, Daron Acemoglu in 2015 also found this positive long-term association.
Benjamin Franklin  said: “No nation was ever ruined by trade.” Under the openness of economy I mean an active participation in trade relations, in global division of labor and in global capital flows. Almost all of the papers show an importance of the openness of the economy in relation to economic growth. For example, Dollar and Kraay in 2001 found that an increase in trade flows and foreign direct investment leads to higher rates of economic growth. The positive connection between the openness of the economy and the outcomes of economic activity is showed by Frankel and Romer in their 1996 article. Romer in 1993 also concluded that the foreign direct investments play a significant role in erasing the technological gap.
As a result, two main hypotheses can be suggested:
H 1: Democratization has a positive influence on long-run economic development of “transition economies”;
H 2: Openness of economy has a positive influence on long-run economic development of “transition economies.
At the same time, it is crucial to mention one nuance about democracy. Some countries are blessed with abundance of natural resources, which allow them richen on a basis of natural rent without establishing democratic institutions. It leads to insignificance of democracy with regard to that sort of countries. To take it into account I will formulate a subsidiary hypothesis:
H 3: A structural shift due to the presence of natural resources takes place.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in the study. It also gives special emphasis on the analysis of data.
As a measure of democratization I will apply  Polity IV Project database, which contains information about political regime characteristics and transitions. This index appears to be appropriate for the study due to the following:
It has a 21-point measurement scale, which makes it more flexible and sensitive to political changes
Unlike other indexes it covers necessary time period
This index was used in the previous studies of similar fields of study
As was mentioned above, in this study not level, but one hundred stock of democracy will be calculated according to the following formula: ,
Where ?Level?_(i,s)  is a Polity IV measure;
?0,99?^(t-s) reflects the depreciation of democracy in time.
As a measure of economy’s openness I will take advantage of relative new Index of Economic Globalization.  It comprises both actual flows (Trade, FDI and Portfolio Investment) and restrictions (Hidden Import Barriers, Taxes on International Trade and Capital Account Restrictions), which makes it more representative, too. Other macroeconomic variables are taken from World Bank Database.
The data will be analyzed with the help of an Eviews statistical package, enabling to produce all procedures necessary for the study.
Thus, the base model takes the following specification: ,
Where Ii – is a vector of control variables, included in the regression ,
NIi – is a vector of control variables, needed for robustness check.
Due to a panel structure of the data, the most appropriate method is OLS with fixed time effects and its modifications.  The robustness check will be based on one of the approaches from Beugelsdijk et al, 2002. However, according to the differences in data and econometric approach, a particular method of a robustness check will take a definite shape as the study is progressing. 

Predicted outcomes
Speaking about future results of my paper it should be stated that there are two main hypotheses and a subsidiary one which are going to be proved. I anticipate positive influence of the both democratization and openness of economy on long-run development of transitional economies. Besides, I suppose that countries with natural resources differ from countries without them in the context of influence of democracy. However, because of the diversity of countries, differences in their initial conditions and rate of market reforms I assume that the results will not stand a robust check.
The main outcome will be confirmation of the fact that economic growth of post-socialist countries is determined by the generally accepted factors. 
    
Limitation of research
Below I consider the limitations of the study. First of all, it is misleading to suggest that the chosen variables fully reflect the both democratization and openness of economy. For example, economic globalization index does not contain information about membership in different international trade organizations which seem to be an important factor. Polity IV Index does not make a difference between normal and controlled democracies. Thus, there is a danger in relying too much on the indexes. But we should end on optimistic note, because anyway their advantages outweighed the above-mentioned drawbacks.
Secondly, the time horizon of the study accounts for only twenty four years, but this limitation is impossible to overcome. 
Thirdly, we cannot entirely rely of macroeconomic data. It does not reflect the actual posture of affairs in countries owing to inaccuracy of national statistical agencies, the presence of “shadow economy” and so on. Nevertheless, it is a common problem for all researchers. 