Introduction
Background. The relevance of the study of intangible assets is due to the fact that currently there is a shift in economic priorities towards intangible assets as they significantly affect profit, profitability, investment attractiveness, financial stability, economic security and economic efficiency as well as competitiveness and individual business entities, and regions, industries, the economy as a whole. Intangible assets acquire particular importance in connection with the transfer of the Russian economy to an innovative path of development. The condition and development of intangible assets depend on their industry affiliation. In this regard, the study of intangible assets by type of economic activity is relevant. (Mayorova, 2014). In this paper, we will consider the economic efficiency of the influence of intangible assets in production activities namely in wine production of Russian companies. In this work the wine market in Russia was taken because right now Russian wine production is reaching a new level.

Problem Statement. At the end of the last century the world economy entered a new stage of development which is characterized by a change in priority factors in the formation of the production process. Studying the impact of intangible assets on profits, market capitalization and investment attractiveness is becoming an increasingly important task today. But many enterprises do not even know what intangible assets they have and how to correctly evaluate their economic return. Wine production market entering a new level like no other one involves both tangible and intangible assets. And if everything is much more intricate with tangible assets, but intangibles are only on the way to study in the country's economy. This all determines the aim of the research. The aim of the study is to analyze the effect of the intangible assets on economic performance in Russian winemaking industry.
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
to study approaches to the definition and valuation of intangible assets;
to study the wine production market in Russia;
to conduct regression analysis of the influence of intangible assets on economic performance;
to determine the impact of intangible assets on the economic efficiency of Russian production companies in the wine market.

Delimitations of the study. The results of this research will be limited to one country (Russia), but they can be applied to winemaking organizations of other countries. 
Besides, difficulties may arise due to the unresolved legislation of the issue of intellectual property rights, which often does not allow fixing the owner of a specific object of an intangible asset, evaluating it at market value and putting it on the balance sheet of an enterprise. Particular difficulties arise when the development is carried out at the expense of the state budget.
Also we can face the problem of a lack of research on this topic and the lack of knowledge of the wine market in Russia.
Moreover, there may be multicollinearity, heteroskedasticity or homoscedasticity in the constructed regression. In this case it will be necessary to deal with the help of various econometric methods.
Professional Significance. The practical significance of this study lies in the fact that there are no enough researches on the impact of intangible assets on the economic return of the wine market. The wine market is not well studied in Russia and, as previously mentioned, is only beginning to develop in our country. Wine is a frequently used product and it can also bring big profits not only from domestic sales but also from exporting this product abroad. 
The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for students, economists, manufacturers, entrepreneurs and lawyers who research the industrial and wine market. The trends in development of the wine market can amid economic and environmental and social importance. 

Literature Review
In order to deal with the influence of intangible assets on economic efficiency and with its value we turn to the basic concepts used in this issue.
After researching a review of scientific sources and legal acts we can conclude that there is no single approach to the definition of intangible assets. The main document on intangible assets (PBU 14/07) does not define them directly; it contains only a list of criteria that an object must match for its recognition by intangible assets. However, the International Accounting Standards (IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”), tax legislation (The Tax Code of the Russian Federation, a. 257) and International Valuation Standards (IVS 210) contain clear definitions of intangible assets that differ from each other.
In accordance with Russian tax legislation intangible assets have a financial and economic reflection of such legal concept as intellectual property, i.e. “The results of intellectual activity and equivalent means of individualization of legal entities, goods, works, services and enterprises that are granted legal protection” (The Civil Code of the Russian Federation, a. 1225).
Often intangible assets are characterized by long-term rights to intangible objects with economic properties (PBU 14/2007, p. 5).
An interesting opinion is that intangible assets are in the form of knowledge. “Intangible assets are obvious intellectual resources, knowledge in various forms that belong to an organization” (Tretyak, 2010).
Sometimes intangible assets are equated with intellectual capital and most often this equalization takes place in a foreign economy. In the classical wording suggested by T. Stuart, intellectual capital is “intellectual material that includes knowledge, experience, information and intellectual property and participates in the creation of values” (Stuart, 2007), which corresponds to the broadest definition of intangible assets.
Moreover, intangible assets in some cases are considered even as the business reputation of the company.
Summarizing all of the above, it can be concluded that intangible assets are considered as the economic essence of intellectual property, part of the property or assets of an organization, a special type of rights, knowledge, business reputation or intellectual capital of an organization. (Mayorova, 2014).
Issues of analysis and evaluation of their economic efficiency seem relevant in the context of the active use of intangible assets in production activities. In order to understand what economic efficiency is and how to evaluate it, let us turn to the very concept. Cost-effectiveness in almost all sources is considered the same. Economic efficiency is the result that can be obtained by comparing the indicators of profitability of production in relation to total costs and resources used. The economic efficiency of production is the efficiency of the use of production resources and in our case intangible assets are the resources. There are types of economic efficiency of production in practice, so there is absolute economic efficiency and relative. Absolute economic efficiency is an indicator for a certain period of time characterizing the total value of the economic effect in comparison with the size of costs and resources individually and in aggregate to compare the level of efficiency for enterprises and regions. It is expressed in terms of labor intensity, material consumption, capital intensity and return on assets. Comparative efficiency is calculated and analyzed when substantiating the production, economic, technical and economic decisions made for selecting the optimal one from alternative options. It should be noted that currently the issues of analysis and assessment of the economic efficiency of intangible assets as part of the property of production and trade organizations taking into account the specifics of the industry remain practically is unstudied. The relevance and underdevelopment of the issues addressed determined the purpose of this research work. The purpose of this research is to analyze and evaluate the economic efficiency of the use of intangible assets in the production activities of Russian wine organizations.
As was it written earlier the topic of tangible assets and the efficiency of their use are still not well understood. The impact of intangible assets on wine-producing organizations is practically not affected by anyone. Therefore, a literature review will use those sources that directly affect intangible assets in any of the economic practices such as manufacturing and trading.
Mayorova E.A. in her article “Economic Efficiency of Intangible Assets in Retail” proposed the following methodology for assessing the economic efficiency of intangible assets in retail (Table 1).
Taking for attention the specifics of using intangible assets as both the company's resource potential in the production process and their commercial use, the economic efficiency of intangible assets can be divided into 2 groups (Table 2).
Let's talk about each of these indicators in detail:
1 GROUP
1. Depreciation coefficient. The use of this coefficient for analysis is doubtful as physical depreciation is not typical for intangible assets.
2. The coefficient of acquisition, qualification, updating and disposal. The economic goal of this coefficient is to determine the characteristics of the movement process and the degree of updating of the innovative component of company in accordance with modern conditions.
3. The level of internal production returns from intangible assets. It is calculated on the basis of the gross income of the company received from the sale of goods (works, services) that are produced on the basis or with the use of intangible assets.
4. The coefficient of intensive use of intangible assets. It is calculated as the product of the coefficient of extensive use of intangible assets in the industry and the utilization rate of intangible assets over the time the company operates
5. The share of income from the use of intangible assets in the production of goods (works, services). This indicator is difficult to calculate. As a rule an expert statistical approach is used to calculate it.
2 GROUP
1. The level of commercial profit from intangible assets, which is defined as the ratio of income from commercial use of an intangible asset to their average value for the period.
2. The profitability of intangible assets is calculated as the ratio of retained earnings to the initial cost of intangible assets.
3. Readiness of intangible assets of domestic production for commercial use. Studies show that more than half of all intangible assets used in production are created directly by companies.
In this research we will take such an indicator of economic efficiency as the return on intangible assets. This indicator is a depend variable in the model.
As the object of research, Russian companies in wine industry were selected as the object of research, there are only 19 such companies (wineries) for the current year (Abrau Durso, Alma Valley, Burnier / Burnier, Villa Victoria, Vedernikov Winery, Villa Zvezda, Yubileynaya Winery, Guy Kodzor , Zolotaya Balka, Sikora Estate, Kuban Wine, Lefkadia, Raevskoye, Satera, Sauk Dere, Divnomorskoe Manor, Fanagoria, Chateau le Grand Vostok and Uppa Winery). These wineries cover the territories of the following regions: Krasnodar Territory, Crimea (since 2014), Rostov Region, Stavropol Territory, and the Republic of  Dagestan.

Methods
The primary research method for this study is literature review, construction and analysis of a regression model. This study will first consider various limitations and then decide on a list of studied factors, such set of intangible assets of companies whose returns can be estimated. In the second stage of this study will contain statistic and graphical analyzes of the constructed regression model. 
Results Anticipate
The results of the analysis will be answers to the posed research question.  Despite of this fact that the model has many limitations  it is assumed that intangible assets have the positive impact on economic performance of winemaking enterprises. Economic performance in this research is considered as a rentability of intangible assets.  

Conclusion
Summarizing all of the above, I would like to conclude that the existence of intangible assets indicates the innovative activity of the enterprise. And this means nothing more than the development of an enterprise’s economy which means the positive impact of intangible assets on the economic efficiency of production. There are a lot of approaches to the valuation of intangible assets and they all are differ from each other and you need to take into account the field of the company’s activity while choosing some approach. In addition, even though the topic of intangible assets has been little studied it has relevance and significance today not only for trading enterprises but also for manufacturing ones.