Introduction
Background
The film industry is one of the most important components of the media and entertainment industry and annually brings large players in the market a huge income. As part of the culture and entertainment industry, movie and movie review websites have grown significantly.
Since the Internet has become a major source for assessing the quality of films reviews of users and professional critics on Internet resources have become important sources of consumer perceived film value. Hollywood has already felt the impact of online reviews on film success. For example, in 2017 an American review-aggregation website «Rotten Tomatoes» was criticized by investors and participants in the production of «Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice», «Baywatch» and «Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales». The site was accused of the fact that the aggregate ratings from professional critics do not reflect reality and have a destructive impact on the industry. On the other hand, according to the Business Next report, in 2015 several small budget films achieved good box office performance with low marketing budgets. One such example is «Gone Girl», with production costs of $60 million, revenue of $167.8 million domestically, and $201.5 million worldwide. Media and professional film reviewers emphasize that a significant number of positive reviews from critics led to such results.

Problem Statement
The main aim of this study is to examine if online reviews, such as professional reviews of critics, positively or negatively affect the decision of an individual consumer to purchase a movie ticket? Critics’ reviews are important because if they have a significant impact on consumer thinking. However, they can be used not only as a marketing tool, but also as a predictor of whether a film will be financially successful. Therefore, for the purposes of this study, it is also worth paying attention to the relationship between consumer reviews and critics.

Professional Significance
The results of this study will help determine what impact professional critics can have on box office films, which will help to avoid the risks associated with this and build a profitable strategy.

Literature Review
The Word-of-mouth (WOM) effect has been recognized as one of the most significant resources for transmitting information from the very beginning of human society (Godes and Mayzlin 2004; Maxham and Netemeyer 2002; Reynolds and Beatty 1999). Due to this fact, studies of the impact of interpersonal communication are widespread in the economic literature. However, ordinary interpersonal communication is effective only within limited social contacts, and influence decreases rapidly with time and distance (Bhatnagar and Ghose 2004; Ellison and Fudenberg 1995).
The development of information technology and the spread of online sites and social networks have deeply changed the way information is transmitted and surpassed the traditional limitations of WOM (Laroche et al. 2005). The proliferation of the Internet has led to the emergence of the “Electronic-word-of-mouth” (E-WOM) effect. The advent of E-WOM enabled the use of a new methodology for measuring consumer WOM: directly through social networks, online forums and other forms of user-generated online content. Researchers can easily collect large amounts of data from such sources.
User reviews on the Internet can influence product sales through awareness or persuasion. The awareness effect indicates that reviews inform users about the existence of the product and thereby put it in the consumers ’choice. The effect of persuasion forms the attitude of consumers to the product and affects their decision to purchase.
The film industry was chosen as the object of study because industry experts agree that WOM is a critical factor underlying the durability of the film, which leads to its ultimate financial success (Elberse and Eliashberg 2003). Online movie reviews generate E-WOM, which increases consumer awareness and also affects the evaluation of movie consumers and their buying decisions. Both expert critics and customer reviews have a significant impact on box office revenue. In addition, the film industry has received the most attention in the scientific literature on WOM, which allows us to compare the results with the results of previous studies.
However, it should be mentioned that films are of the type of goods called experimental. The purpose of such products is not only to be accepted by consumers or to generate customer satisfaction, but also to evoke a positive emotional experience of consumers. Due to the uniqueness of this type of product, research results from this industry do not necessarily extend to other retail sectors.
Critics play an important role in consumer decisions in many industries, and the film industry is one of the most prominent examples of this impact, because about a third of regular viewers seek their opinion (Basuroy, Chatterjee, & Ravid, 2003). There are two main approaches to modeling the impact of professional critics’ reviews on the movies’ box office performance. According to the first approach, critics and their reviews are associated with early box office performance, so they directly affect the success of the film. The second approach considers critics as predictors, as their reviews are related to overall box office performance (Boatwright, Basuroy, & Kamakura, 2007).
A number of existing studies based on the first approach have revealed the direct impact of critique reviews on the box office performance of films. For example, in a study Basuroy, Chatterjee, & Ravid (2003), the authors found that critics’ reviews correlate with box office revenues over a period of eight weeks and also have less and less impact over time. Nevertheless, according to other studies, reviews by professional critics are more likely to affect regular viewers and contribute little to raising the effect of awareness. Irregular movie theater visitors are more influenced by user reviews than regular viewers, they are more likely to trust negative consumer reviews rather than positive critical reviews (Chakravarty, Liu & Mazumdar, 2010).
The second approach is supported by the results of a study Eliashberg & Shugan (1997). The authors found that the percentage of negative reviews about the film did not have a significant impact on revenue on the release but was statistically significant for revenue received after the fourth week of release. This means that the impact of critique reviews on box office is unlikely, since there would be a more direct correlation between reviews and initial revenue. However, there is still sufficient evidence to argue that critics may be able to predict box office revenues, although the authors note that the evidence is not conclusive. This approach is also supported by the fact that the process of collecting data on box office receipts and reviews of critics and spectators by week of rental causes great difficulties, while the same indicators for all time are publicly available information.
Since irregular viewers tend to trust online reviews of ordinary viewers more than the opinions of professional critics, most studies recognize the direct influence of critics on box office success is unlikely, so there was a need to explain the relationship of reviews of professional critics with the opinion of the audience. In an article of Holbrook (1999), the author tries to determine whether ordinary viewers and critics have different standards for films, and whether these different or similar tastes create some kind of correlation between film success and critics' ratings. Based on surveys conducted by HBO and professional critics’ reviews from various industry media, it was found that the similarity of preferences between consumers and critics was statistically significant.
These findings allow to consider online user reviews as an endogenous factor. Considering the endogenous nature of online user reviews significantly changes the analysis. To take this factor into account, it is necessary to create the model that will study both the impact of critical reviews and consumer reviews on box office revenues, and the impact of critical reviews and box office revenues on consumer reviews.
One of the studies considering user reviews as an endogenous factor is the paper of Duan, Gu & Whinston (2008). The results of the study showed that the rating of online user reviews does not significantly affect box-office grossing of films after taking into account endogeneity, indicating that online user reviews have insignificant effect on consumers' decision to purchase tickets. The results of the study showed that the rating of online user reviews does not significantly affect box-office grossing of films after taking into account endogeneity, indicating that online user reviews have little effect on consumers' decision to purchase tickets. A similar approach was used in a study by Godes and Mayzlin (2004). The system of seemingly unrelated regressions used in this work does not take into account the endogeneity of E-WOM when it acts as a factor affecting sales. Nevertheless, in this study a system of equations more fully characterizes the interdependent relationship between E-WOM and film revenues, which also allows full control over the endogenousity of the WOM effect.

Methods
In order to achieve the aim of the study, data on the following factors were collected from the review-aggregation website “Rotten Tomatoes”: average critics’ rating, average viewers’ rating, movie genre and a list of Cast Actors. In addition, for each movie there were collected data about box office revenue and the production budget from “The Numbers” (a movie industry data website).
The collected data has a Panel Type. It means that data about particular economic factors were collected from the different objects of the same type. This type of data came from surveys of individuals and gained wide distribution.
To study the relationship between movies’ box office performance and mentioned factors it is necessary to build an econometric model. Econometric model is statistical model used to specify the statistical relationship between various economic quantities pertaining to a particular economic phenomenon. In this study, we use the model called simultaneous equations model. This is a type of statistical model in the form of a set of the linear simultaneous equations. This type of model was chosen in order to consider exogenous nature of online user reviews.

Results Anticipated
The research results will be obtained with the methods mentioned. It is expected that the coefficient for the average critics’ ratings will be significant and positive. This will allow to identify the influence of the critics’ reviews on movies box office revenue. These predicted results are based on the same type of the evidence as the literature reviewed.
However, there are some difficulties when estimating the regression equation. There is a possibility that average viewers rating is an exogenous factor. In this study I could compare the estimates obtained for the simple linear regression and simultaneous equations model.

Conclusion
This study focuses on the impact of critics’ average ratings on movies’ box office revenue. Additionally, the study contributes to the understanding of the other factors affecting the movies’ box office performance, such as stars, budgets, viewers average ratings, genres and age ratings.
In particular, this paper examines the hypotheses about the impact of the professional critics’ reviews on the movies’ box office performance. If the implementation of the model examined in this study proves successful on empirical data, in the future it will be possible to complicate the model by including additional factors. It is also possible to build the forecasting model using the current specification, but this will require access to a more complete dataset.
At this stage, the main thing is to build the considered model, as well as to test it to verify its effectiveness. The results of the research will be interesting for the industry leaders and researchers in the field of experience goods.