Introduction
Background. Social networks play a significant role in people's lives, particularly in the life of the younger generation. Numerous attempts have been made by sociologists to give a convincing proof of the fact that a person spends up to 80% of his time in social networks for entertainment, educational and business purposes.
What is more, various scholars claim that social networks have a mathematical component, which can be studied in several ways. The most popular way to study social networks is graph theory, which is a section of discrete mathematics.
Students` success in their field of study depends not only on the level of education at universities but also on the characteristics of people around them. It seems clear to expect an improvement in academic results if the student has capable classmates. However, studies show that one of the most effective communication networks are friendship channels. Therefore, there is an interest in studying the structure of friendship channels, social networks of friendship, emerging in the educational process at the university.
This topic is currently an active area of research because of the importance of social networks in the educational process in particular and in life in general.

Problem Statement. The overall goal of this proposal will be to attempt to analyze the relationship between the academic performance of students and the characteristics of friendship networks that they create, such as the number of classmates and their knowledge level.
In the framework of the project a number of specific aims to achieve will be:
• To review relevant literature;
• To choose tools for solving research problems;
• To create an empirical database that is consistent with the purpose of the study;
• To conduct an empirical study;
• To formulate conclusions according to the results interpretation and then compare with the other authors` findings;
There are various approaches to investigating students` networks such as analysis, generalization, systematization, statistical analysis, econometric analysis.

Delimitations of the Study. For practical reasons, the present study has chosen to emphasise only on university students` social networks and their connection to academic achievements. It is not within the scope of current analysis to investigate the same patterns in the cases of school pupils and workers. 

Professional Significance. The problem under consideration can be a matter of great interest for various scholars investigating factors that can positively or negatively influence the achievements of different groups of people under study. 

Literature Review
As it was mentioned earlier, social networks have occupied a special place in our lives. A lot of researches have been made by various scholars to explore the ways in which they affect not only the life in general but some particular spheres like education and academic performance.  
The authors of the article (Biancani, Macfarland, 2013) conducted a statistical analysis of the impact of students' social networks on their academic results. They explored the networks of friendship, mutual assistance, and students` living space and analyzed their impact on each student’s academic achievement. The results of the study, where social networks were dependent variables, showed that friendship networks had a great influence on their academic performance. Also, the study showed that a great number of friends negatively affect the student’s studying process. The authors' hypothesis about the strong influence of the place where students live on academic progress has not been confirmed. However, a strong dependence on the impact of friendship networks among students living in the dormitory on the amount of alcohol and cigarettes consumed was revealed.
In the article (Dokuka et al., 2015) of authors, social networks of students and their performance were proved to be interdependent. The study contained two hypotheses. The first hypothesis stated that students choose friends according to their academic achievement. The second hypothesis claimed that friendship networks have an influence on student’s academic performance, and grades in specific friendship networks become similar over time. The authors conducted a questionnaire among 117 students of economics faculty in one of the Russian universities. The data on students` academic progress was publicly available at the university’s website. The study confirmed both hypotheses, due to the fact that the rating system was generally available, students were aware of their fellow students` scores, and, consequently, students with the highest grades were more popular than the others, which caused  the increase of the performance of their colleagues. 
The article (Krekhovets, Poldin, 2013) by the authors presented an empirical analysis of students' social networks, where academic achievement showed that students` friendship groups based on the similarity of characteristics: living space, academic performance, and interests. Friendship networks have a strong impact not only on grades but also on the chosen subjects, sports, and other interests.
An analysis of the social impact on students' studying was presented in the authors' research (Dokuka et al., 2015). The analysis of data on first-course students showed that friendship networks were not formed depending on students` academic achievements. The effect of friendship networks on student’s achievements in education is obvious.
The authors (Lomi et all, 2011) of the article defined stochastic agent models that allow us to evaluate the interconnected contribution of social selection and social influence to the individual student performance. They reported that the evidence of peer communication is that students tend to be affected by the average academic performance of their friends and advisors. At the same time, students who achieve similar levels of academic performance are more likely to develop friendly and advisory relationships. The authors' results for average similarity suggested systematic evidence of peer influence: the performance of an individual student tends to become similar (or “assimilate”) to the performance of their peers (or to remain similar). Interestingly, the effect is equally strong for friendship and advisory network, although standard errors are slightly less for the former. 
Students spend most of their time outside their class, however, the interaction between them does not stop. The authors analyzed how informal social interaction affects the student’s learning process. In addition, in order to investigate what really matters in the process of studying, the model which involved well-known important constructions preceding academic performance, such as motivation and social integration, was tested. This cross-sectional quantitative study involved 301 medical students. Following a network approach, informal social interaction was assessed with the use of self-esteem. Individual motivation, social integration, and academic performance of each student were measured using the Academic Motivation Scale, College Adaptation Questionnaire, and GPA students respectively. The study has revealed that the informal social interaction of students is closely related to their learning.
The authors (Carrell, Fullerton, West, 2009) evaluated the degree of influence of the cohort on college academic achievement. To assess the effect of peers on college achievement, the authors used a unique data set in which individuals were exogenously divided into several peer groups of approximately 30 students with whom they were required to spend most of their time interacting. This approach allowed the authors to evaluate the influence of peers, who could be easily compared considering the changes in the entire cohort. Using this wide group of peers, the scholars explored academic peer influence of a much larger magnitude than was found in previous studies that measured peer effects only among roommates. The authors discovered that peer effects persist with decreasing frequency in the second, junior, and senior grades, which indicates that peer influence in social networks can have a lasting effect on academic performance. The results of current research also suggest that peer influence can be witnessed through partnerships in learning, rather than through the social norm of effort.
An article by the authors (Valeeva et al., 2013) is devoted to the social networks` characteristics of students of the economics faculty at one of the Russian universities. The study compares friendship and relationships, which occur when students help each other, with the individual characteristics of students. Students ask for help and make friends with classmates with a similar level of performance. Students with high academic achievements are more popular within the help networks than within the friendship networks.
The identification of social interactions using partially overlapping peer groups of the same rank was presented by the authors (De Giorgi G., Pellizzari M., Redaelli S., 2010). In this article, the researchers demonstrated that fact in a context where peer groups did not completely overlap. All relevant parameters of the standard linear model of social interactions were clearly determined. The authors applied a new identification structure to study the mutual influence of colleagues during college elections. The results showed that, indeed, some people vote for the candidate, for which most colleagues voted. Also, the study proved that peers can distract students from specialties in which they are more successful, which leads to negative consequences for  their academic performance, initial salary, and job satisfaction, showing the presence of herd instinct.
The article (Barnes, 1954) considered the political system, the structure of village life, kinship and other similar areas of interaction as parts of the same group if they had equal status. The authors compared the effects of the same external factors, which included principles of organizations and similarities, with differences in social life. This difficult task, although very difficult, was carried out for a growing number of simple tasks, in relation to which we can be sure that society is the same. When we turn to the incredibly complex societies of Western civilization, our task becomes much more complex. Field work in the Western community can directly lead to the knowledge of only a very small sector in the social life of a large society. Then this area of ​​detailed knowledge should be as much as possible connected with information obtained from other parts of society.
The association of interclass social ties and performance was presented in the works (Gasevic, Zouaq, Janzen 2013; Hanneken, Fu, Xing 2010). Based on studies of social capital and network learning, the authors hypothesized that (a) the social capital of students, accumulated during their course, is positively related to their academic performance, and (b) students with large social capital have significantly higher academic results. 
Consequently, numerous studies of various characteristics of students' social connections lead to the following conclusions. We can’t say that the students’ friendly relations are uniquely interconnected with academic achievement, because studies lead to different results. For this reason, we are interested in the study of the relationship between the academic achievements of students and various types of social ties. 

Methods
The data was gathered during the special questionnaire among the HSE-Perm`s students of management and economic departments. 137 students in the fields of Economics (63 students) and Management (74 students) of the Faculty of Economics, Management, and Business Informatics participated in the questionnaire, which was created in cooperation with the supervisor of current research.
In order to maintain data confidentiality, each student was assigned an individual code in the form of a serial number:
[1; 63] - economists,
[1; 74] - managers,
[1; 137] is a combined sample of economists and managers.
Students answered 49 questions of the electronic questionnaire. The answers to the questions were analyzed, and the results were presented both in table form and in the form of graphs. Such characteristics as gender, department of study, type of studying place (budget or commercial), rating points characterizing student performance at the time of the survey, will also be added to the dataset.
We will construct a regression model (Lee, 2007) that will allow us to calculate the quantitative effects of the studied variables. As a dependent variable we use the average grade of the student per year. The explanatory variables include previously matched characteristics: the student’s gender, living space (in a dormitory or not), the level of his extracurricular activity in high school, department of study (Economics or Management), the number of connections with other students, and the average grade point of friends. In addition, we will add a variable that is responsible for whether the student is studying on a budget or commerce place, since the fact that a student was able to enter a budget place is obviously positively related to his learning abilities and, all other things being equal, his current performance.
Also, according to a previous analysis, we will include the interaction variables, which are obtained by multiplying two variables. For example, we added a variable “economist multiplied by the number of connections”, the coefficient before which will show how many units the effect of increasing the number of connections per unit will be more or less (with a negative sign of the coefficient) for the economist than for the manager. Thus, we will check three effects of interaction from the variable responsible for the fact that the student is an economist and variables of extracurricular activity, the number of connections and the fact of living in a dormitory. Here is the final form of the regression equation (formula 1):
, (1)
Where:
β0 is a free member,
Y - Average score for the 2017-2018 academic year, quantitative variable
X1 - Budgetary basis of studying (1 - studies on a budget, 0 - otherwise), a binary variable,
X2 - Student gender (1 - male, 0 - female), binary variable,
X3 - Economist (1 - the student is studying in the direction of "economics", 0 - the student is studying in the department of "management"), a binary variable,
X4 - Extracurricular activity * economist (takes a value of 0 for managers), a quantitative variable,
X5 - Dormitory * economist (takes the value 0 for managers, 1 if the economist lives in a dormitory), a binary variable,
X6 - The number of connections * economist (takes a value of 0 for managers), a quantitative variable,
X7 - Average student's grade* economist (takes a value of 0 for managers), a quantitative variable,
X8 - Extracurricular activity * manager (assumes a value of 0 for economists), a quantitative variable,
X9 - Dormitory * manager (takes the value 0 for economists, 1 if the manager lives in a dormitory), a binary variable,
X10 - The number of connections * manager (takes a value of 0 for economists), a quantitative variable,
X11 - Average student performance * manager (takes a value of 0 for economists), a quantitative variable,
ε is a random error.
We can’t say that the students’ friendly relations are uniquely interconnected with academic achievement because different studies lead to different results. For this reason, we are interested in the study of the friendship networks influence on students` academic achievements and various types of social networks. 

Results Anticipated
Based on the studies of numerous authors, in which friendship networks have different effects on academic achievement, we cannot expect particular results. However, based on my previous researches, I can assume that students who study in universities make friendship networks with students who have similar academic performance and the number of students' friends has a positive impact on their academic performance.
Analyzing the studied literature, and according to our previous researches, we can present the results which we expect to get.
One of the key factors determining the formation of friendships between students is the proximity of their characteristics. Students look forward to make friends with peers like themselves: from the same ethnic group, with similar socio-economic characteristics and interests. The effect of the neighborhood is no less important since the geographical proximity of living space, as well as co-residence in a dormitory increase the likelihood of establishing friendship networks. Therefore, we are able to expect that living space and quantity of student`s friends with high average grades will affect student’s academic achievement positively. 
Therefore, we are able to expect that living space and the quantity of student`s friends with high average grades will affect a student’s academic achievements positively. 

Conclusion
The overall goal of this proposal was to analyze the relationship between students’ academic performance and characteristics of friendship networks, such as the number of classmates and their level of knowledge.  All the data collected by the scholars in the previous studies included practically the same factors, such as the maximum similarity of the analyzed groups, student dormitories and the average grade points of friends similar to each other, but each work showed different results, even if the same conditions were used for the research. 
We will use various approaches to investigating students` networks such as analysis, generalization, systematization, statistical analysis, econometric analysis. We gathered data during the special questionnaire among the HSE-Perm`s students of management and economic departments and asked them more than 49 questions. The total amount of participants was 137 students from the economics and management departments. The poll was created in cooperation with the supervisor. 
According to the collected and analyzed answers, we expect that living space and the quantity of student`s friends with high average grades will affect a student’s academic achievement positively.
During the study, we expect only one limitation to be revealed which is the lack of information about students` motives while they form their social networks. 
Our research will be useful for students, who are interested in improving their knowledge about social networks and their formation for increasing average grades, and for professors and further researchers, who can study our article and probably use our method of analyzing. Also, our work can help corporations to analyze the social networks of their workers and find, which factors have a positive impact on their achievements.