Introduction
Background. Digital economy is a rapidly developing field that has numerous issues yet to be studied. This paper aims to examine the connection between a company’s demand for digital skills and its innovation activity. The findings described in the literature indicate that the connection between R&D and competencies has its own peculiarities, hence it is not obvious how the company’s labour market demand is associated with its innovative activities and what competencies of employees are related to the firm’s R&D activity the most.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: there is conclusive evidence of disparity between a firm’s demand for human resources and its actual skill requirements, as well as the proposition about interconnection between a company’s R&D intensity and digital skills the firm possesses. Therefore, the research question is “What digital skills have the strongest connection with a company’s R&D investment?”. The aim of this study is to obtain a list of digital skills that are related to R&D investment the most. The hypotheses are formulated as follows:
It is hypothesized that the skills related to database management and programming are the most popular requirements in the job advertisements.
It is hypothesized that the competencies associated with data analysis have the strongest connection with R&D investment. 
The first hypothesis stems from the conclusions presented in existing studies. The second hypothesis relies on the fact that a company cannot gain a competitive advantage or increase its effectiveness without analyzing its own processes and outcomes. However, existing findings do not indicate high attractiveness of the data analytics skills among employers on the modern labour market. Therefore, the second hypothesis deserves rigorous investigation.
In conformity with the research question the objectives are the following:
to analyze existing quantitative methods of research of demand for skills and to identify the most relevant one;
to identify the most prevalent competencies analyzing job advertisements;
to construct a set of control variables;
too choose an appropriate specification of the regression function; 
to interpret the coefficients.
Delimitations of the study. The findings will be limited by the selection of the firms. Moreover, the sample of job advertisements is also constrained due to the fact that the vacancies published on the firms’ websites and through private channels of communication are unavailable.
Professional Significance. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for universities, young specialists, firms, and institutions that benefit from high innovation activity. Since the issue studied is related both to the labour market and financial characteristics of a firm, the results might be valuable for companies that plan to invest in research and development, as well as for universities which aim to attract applicants interested in key digital competencies.  
Definitions of key terms. Digital skills are defined as a range of abilities to use digital devices, communication applications, and network to access and manage information; or, in a broader sense, as a “combination of behaviors, expertise, know-how, work habits, character traits, dispositions and critical understandings” (Wu et al., 2018, p. 5).
Innovation activities are “all scientific, technological, organisational, financial and commercial steps which actually, or are intended to, lead to the implementation of innovations” (Frascati Manual, 2002, p. 18).
An innovation is “the implementation of a new or significantly improved product (a good or a service), or a process, a new marketing method, or a new organisational method in business practices, workplace organisation or external relations” (Frascati Manual, 2002, p. 46).

Literature Review
The problem of innovation activity is considered one of the most controversial issues in modern Russian economic environment. The issue stated was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. In this section essential conclusions existing in the literature as well as the main approaches to the study of labour market demand will be described. The works will be presented in reverse chronological order. This approach allows to focus on modern concepts and view the methods in a historical perspective.
In the article by Lavrynenko and Shmatko (2019) the authors investigated the impact of technology development on the labour market and common competencies of banking workers, using the results of text mining, case studies and expert interviews. Based on the outcome of the analysis, the researchers compiled a semantic map that reflected demand for skills. An essential conclusion of the research is the importance of the digital competencies of the applicants: proficiency in programming languages that correspond to the specifics of the software industry and the ability to work with data. The significance of this article lies in the identification of current trends on the labour market as well as in the description of an effective methodology for determining skills in demand. The relevance of the digital skills was also discussed in the April Conference Report (Гохберг и др., 2019, c. 39): “Big data analytics is a key competency that determines the competitiveness of future companies”; which also confirms the relevance of the conclusions of the article by Shmatko and Lavrynenko.
The next significant work is the report by the analytical company Burning Glass Technologies, dedicated to the fundamental competencies of the digital economy. The study used more than 150 million unique job advertisements posted on aggregator sites, in newspapers and on company websites since 2007 (Markow et al., 2018). The most popular skills were divided into 14 groups. The key result of the research is the fact that the group of digital competencies is the most prevalent one. The authors do not describe the methodology in detail; however, the conclusions of the article confirm the existence of stable trends on the labour market and serve as a basis for hypotheses of the current study.
Furthermore, the demand for competencies in the sphere of biotechnology was examined in the paper by Lavrynenko et al. (2018). One of the research objectives was to verify the conformity of the skills that companies search for and the “innovation philosophy” that firms are committed to. The findings indicate that the most valuable competencies among innovative companies are hard skills and digital skills; however, the results of the interview show that company policies regarding human resources (expressed through job descriptions) and the competencies that the firm in fact needs are often different; therefore, there is a necessity to investigate the relationship between demand for competencies and innovation activity of the firms via quantitative methods.
The next paragraph examines recent researches on R&D factors as well as the current point of view on the relationship between R&D and financial success of the company.
The study of innovation activity in English and Russian literature is significantly different. The main reason is the specifics of accounting for this type of cost in accordance with Russian Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards. According to the RAS, costs can be considered as R&D only when there is a documented positive outcome of the innovative activity of the company; IFRS’s research and development involves cost accounting for both completed and incomplete projects (Makarova et al., 2012, p. 3).
Despite the differences in accounting standards, foreign scholars likewise recognize the effectiveness of R&D as a measurement of a firm’s innovation activity. The main advantage of the metric is the availability of information and the fact that R&D costs are always present in the annual reports of large firms, hence it is possible to analyze the determinants of innovation activity in dynamics. Most often, R&D is adjusted for the company's revenue, in other words, the intensity of the indicator is studied, for example, in Chen & Miller (2007).
Thus, R&D expenditures accurately reflect innovation activity of a company  regardless of the accounting standards.
The determinants presented in Table 1 are the most prevalent in the researches of R&D investment factors.
The findings show that almost all factors have positive effect on the company's expenses on R&D. Most often, the size of the company, measured by either the number of employees, annual revenue, or the market capitalization of the company, is considered as a key factor of R&D.
The impact of R&D investment on the financial success of the company and the economy a whole has been a common subject of research in the field of economics since the end of the 20th century. Many experts claim that “innovation is a source of economic growth” (Griliches, 1979, p. 115; Clark & Griliches, 1982, p. 154); and that research and development investment enhances the effect of a firm’s export market participation on its productivity (Aw et al., 2007, p. 102). However, the following point of view has spread over time:  a firm’s profit is not affected by R&D investment only, but by a combination of suitable skills and investments (Leiponen, 2005, p. 319); in addition, relevant human resources are needed to extract value from innovation (Siepel et al., 2019, p. 3). Therefore, the connection between specific skills and R&D expenditures is of utmost interest.
Therefore, the findings described in the literature indicate that there is a certain relationship between R&D investment and the competencies that the company possesses: both factors theoretically affect the financial performance of the company; in addition, the application of innovation requires relevant human resources. However, the outcomes indicate that the connection between skills and innovation activity of the company has its own peculiarities: job descriptions do not always reflect a company’s real needs. It should also be emphasized that innovation activity was not measured quantitatively and was a principle of sample formation. Consequently, it is not obvious how the company’s labour market demand is associated with its innovation activity and what competencies of employees are associated with the firm’s R&D investment the most. The methods of the work will be presented in the next section.

Methods
Let us move to the methods of the current paper. For this study, the panel data structure is used. This type of data allows to include more rows to the dataset in comparison to cross sectional data or time series. The dataset includes information about financial indicators of the top 1000 Russian firms from 2008 to 2017 as well as the companies’ job advertisements published on the biggest Russian job vacancy aggregator during the same period.
The next method is related to extraction of the digital skills from the job descriptions, namely to text mining. Bag-of-words (BOW) is a method usually employed to obtain vocabulary from texts. This approach involves text tokenization (extraction of the words) and stemming (the procedure of reducing a word to its stem); the set of stemmed tokens is called “the bag of words”. The bag-of-words model was firstly mentioned in the article by Zellig Harris (1954, p. 156). The method allows to build word vectors, each number of which represents how many times the word was mentioned in each text.
In this work, the BOW method will help to determine the most valuable digital skills as well as to create variables that will measure the companies’ demand for particular competencies.
LASSO – least absolute shrinkage and selection operator – is a regression analysis method that involves variable selection and regularization of the coefficients. The method was described by Robert Tibshirani (1996). LASSO enhances prediction accuracy and interpretability of the results. This approach allows to range the determinants by degree of connection to the dependent variable. In this paper, the method will be implemented to determine digital skills that have the strongest connection with a company’s R&D investment.

Results Anticipated
The research is expected to provide the list of digital skills that are strongly related to innovation activity of the firms, as well as in determining digital competencies which are in high demand among all employers. The application of the bag-of-words method to the list of job requirements is expected to result in the following table (tab. 2).
As a result of the analysis, n variables of skills will be obtained, showing how many times the skill was mentioned by the company in a certain year. It is important to note that usually companies mention a particular competency only once per job advertisement, therefore the outcomes may also be interpreted as the number of vacancies with the corresponding skill published by the firm in a certain year.
Next, the degree of connection between the companies’ demand for skills and R&D expenditures will be measured using LASSO regression, and the competencies will be sorted according to the findings. Thus, the answer to the research question will be obtained.

Conclusion
Current paper links a firms demand on the labour market to its innovation activity and fills the gap in the studies of R&D determinants. Moreover, the study will consistently fit into a series of researches devoted to digital economy.
The constraints of the study may be overcome by increasing the number of sources of job advertisements, or by expanding the dataset by including the data on foreign firms.