Introduction
In today's economy, it is impossible to deny the expanded role of innovation. Innovation is the process of the transforming ideas into the product or technology. Since it can provide the sustainable economic growth, scientific and technical programs have become a priority for most countries. This fact is confirmed by the development of national innovation systems and the increase in investment in R&D (Research and Development). However, Russia does not use the innovative potential to the full. The share of R&D expenditure in GDP was around 1.2% according to OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) figures for 2014. The value of this indicator in Russia is higher than in other BRICS countries, such as South Africa and India. On the other hand, there is a large gap with the developed countries - South Korea, Israel and Japan, where the share of R&D expenditure is already close to 4%.
Innovation policy in Russia began to develop only in 2008, but some progress has been made. For example, Russia reached the 12 position in the rating of 50 most innovative countries - Global Innovation Index, compiled by Bloomberg in 2016. According to Bloomberg, the development of higher education has contributed to this result. However, problem areas are the low level of patenting (only 6.4% of the organizations have acquired patent rights in 2014) and investment in R&D among companies (only 33.6% of innovations funded by the business sector in 2014). Thus, for the following reasons I will resort to the problem of regulation of companies' innovative activity. Even though innovation is often understood as a way of reducing costs and improving competitiveness, reasons for the low interest of Russian companies in the innovation activity is still unclear. Perhaps the lack of specific ways to stimulate innovation aggravated the situation. On the other hand, it can be assumed that a research and development in Russian companies are often not effective and do not justify the investment. And if the number of organizational actions in budget financing is already underway, the question of the effectiveness of investments in innovation remains open.
The central goal of this study is evaluating the impact of innovative activity of Russian industrial companies. In the framework of the project it is expected to solve several specific tasks. Firstly, identify fundamental concepts of "innovation" based on a literature review and examine existing models developed for the evaluation of the results of innovation. Secondly, create a regression model reflecting the innovation’s impact on the performance of Russian companies and estimate its coefficients using method of ordinary least squares. Considering the continuous interest in Russian companies’ innovative development, it seems worthwhile to analyze the current trends and problems and propose measures to improve the effectiveness of innovation for the Russian companies.
The paper consists of several sections. The first part is the theoretical background, which discusses a variety of existing approaches to the study of innovation processes. The next part presents methodology and data employed. Predicted results and existing limitations of the study are analyzed in the last part.

Theoretical Background
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. The actual history of innovation is traced to the theory of economic cycles, which appeared in the XX century. Studies of the dynamics of innovations in the works of Kondratiev (1920) and Solow (1957) have shown that there is a revival in the field of technological inventions to the increasing wave cycle. These concepts reflected a potentially important theoretical thinking about the general field of the technological progress and affected on the further study of innovation. 
For a long time, those studies mostly confined to the general issues of the new knowledge development providing a GDP growth of the country at the macro level. It defines the goals and tasks of the state innovation policy. Nevertheless, the creation of innovation can be initiated not only by the government and scientists, but also individual firms. The study of the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter (1982), who is the founder of the innovation’s classical doctrine, deepened and pushed forward the theory of innovation in this direction. Schumpeter linked "innovation" with the concept of “the new combinations" of firms’ resources, which includes the following five cases: (1) the creation of a new product or establishment of new features; (2) the development of a new production’s method; (3) the market share gains: (4) the new source of raw materials and (5) the reorganization. This classification is gaining strong support and often appears in academic arguments.
To focus upon the practical side and find the results of innovation, it is important to decide how to measure innovation activity of the company. To address the question, what indicators allow us to describe the innovative activity of the company is necessary to consider the studies that have been produced in this field of science before.
Since the second half of the XX century, data on R&D expenditures have traditionally been used in empirical research. This indicator shows the company's willingness to invest in its development. The undoubted advantage of this indicator is the availability, as the information on R&D expenditure may be obtained from the accounting statements of companies. In addition, use of this indicator allows constructing long time series. For example, data from some foreign companies contain statistics since 1950. However, the report of Agihon et al (2002) states that some companies believe “it is not mandatory for firms to report it” (p.27). Moreover, some firms make numeric manipulation because of the reluctance to provide data in full. 
Since 1980, the researchers decided to use the more specific indicator of innovation – the number of patents. We can follow Loury (1979) in assuming that patents reflect the result of an intermediate stage in the process of investments’ transformation in the benefits of the innovation created. Nevertheless, this approach is not quite so neat because of patents are only a measure of the invention’s success. It is obvious that not all innovations are patented and only some of them have serious technological content. 
Innovation survey is another source of information on the innovation activities of the companies that had spread in Europe in the 1990s. These surveys were based on depth study of innovation in the framework of each firm. The approach allows taking into account innovations from cooperation of different companies. The researchers Crepon, Duguet and Mairesse (1998) note in their paper that the approach does not allow quantifying the effects of innovation.
Most attempts have been made to link together the study of innovation and companies’ performance. Such studies often have been based on one of the following approaches. Almost until the end of the XX century, most researchers considered a direct impact of R&D expenditures. The production function described in the report of Griliches (1979) was the basic model, which represents the impact of technological knowledge, traditional factors such as labor and capital and other unobserved components on the performance of the company. This approach was used in the work of Huergo and Jaumandreu (2004), where researchers had confirmed the positive impact of innovations, which are described by the R&D expenditure and dummy of different innovation’s types. Despite the widespread use of the traditional method, the assessment of innovation efficiency based on the production function has a number of the following restrictions: R&D expenditures allows evaluating innovation only as "inputs" and not the final result; model excludes companies that do not invest in R&D, but get new knowledge through purchases in the market.
The approach has undergone a root and branch transformation in 1980s. Pakes and Griliches (1984) propose a model of "innovation output", which removed the contradiction between innovation efforts and results. The punch line of the approach is the introduction of the additional parameter - the number of patents. However, this model has some disadvantages because of the influence of market demand for products’ patenting.
The third approach has been proposed in the study of Crepon, Duguet and Mairesse (1998). It is impossible to exaggerate the extraordinary importance of authors’ contribution to the study of innovation at the micro level. The CDM model considers the different approaches and eliminates undesirable effects that may occur in estimating R&D and patents. In particular, the application of Heckman model specifications expanded the sample by including non-innovative companies. In addition, this model specification allows using not only the data from the financial statements of the company, but also innovative surveys.
Thus, the literature review has put forward the need to test the hypothesis that innovation in Russian companies has a significant impact on the performance.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out this study giving special emphasis to the analysis of the data collected. The empirical analysis is based on data of 1096 Russian companies for the period from 2004 to 2013 (10960 observations in an unbalanced panel). The choice of such period allows us to study the effect of innovation in the dynamics and take into account the time lags. The sample includes companies of different ages and sizes that operate in such industries as construction, manufacturing, chemical industry, trade and services.
All data used in the work, provided the International Laboratory of Intangible Assets Economy. Processing of data and other calculation operations will be carried out on the basis of the software package EViews 8 intended for econometric analysis.
Application of econometric modeling will be appropriate in accordance with the tasks. The production function, which considers the effect of physical capital, labor and efforts of the company in the creation of new knowledge, will be used as the base model. 
Model’s variable: 
A – Total factor productivity, 
C – Physical capital,
L – Labor,
K – Innovative activity of the company,
Y – The results of the company’s activity.
The indices i and t represent a certain company and the period for which indicators are considered.
Data on R & D expenditures will be use as information about the innovative activities of the companies, therefore the use of this model is acceptable. It should be made clear at the outset that the methodology involved will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing.

Predicted outcomes
This part of the study reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. Even though most studies support the hypothesis of a positive relationship between companies’ innovation and performance, it may not be obvious in the case of Russian firms. 
Specific features of innovation activity in Russia due to the transitional nature of the economy can significantly affect the results. Moreover, high-yield industrial enterprises, whose share is 70%, can be considered as the “pitfalls” in some sense. Only some of these enterprises are willing to develop new knowledge in the framework of regional activities. Staying on monopoly positions, such companies do not have clear incentives to increase their competitiveness, and are not interested in innovations. As for small businesses, only about 10% are involved in innovation due to weak financial support. These facts led to significant problems hindering the study of innovation activities at the micro level and the definition of the nature of the relationship that interests us.
Increasing the transparency of companies, improving reporting standards and cooperation between businesses, research organizations and government can be offered as incentives for domestic science.

Limitations of research
Finally, it is important to make an attempt at some generalizations and outline a background for the further research. Analysis based on panel data and econometric modeling has revealed a certain relationship between the innovative activity and companies’ performance. Nevertheless, the study does not exclude some of the limitations caused using data on R&D expenditures and direct assessment of the innovation’s impact. In particular, the result of innovation activity is considered only as “input”. Another problem is selectivity. Firms that report zero R&D may also make innovations and create new knowledge. However, such firms were not taken into account.
The analysis of the complex relationship between innovation inputs, outputs and performance requires an integrated approach, which will solve the problems arising in the process of the study. For example, it is possible to use a more modern model specification described in the work of Crepon, Duguet and Mairesse (1998). However, it requires the collection of additional information about patents and the use of complex mathematical manipulations.

