Introduction
The problem of regional competitiveness (RC) and it evaluation is highly discussed nowadays. This is caused by the fact that at the present stage of economic development, there are two main areas of development: globalization and regionalization.  These two vectors have opposite directions. Globalization leads to the disappearance of barriers between countries, the distance between them becomes less important borders are erased in all spheres of life: economy, culture, politics. On the other hand, regionalization leads to a desire to get the regions more autonomy in matters of economic and political regulation, centrifugal processes. Regions seek to maintain its own uniqueness, to increase its influence and importance for the national economy. That is why, large competitiveness level is associated with higher standard of living. Due to lack of any mainstream measure of regional competitiveness it is difficult to government understand what level of competitiveness their territory has. 
Research question addressed in this paper will more deeply reveal the competitiveness issues. The paper will explore level of competitiveness in each study region. Moreover, in this research factors effect on the level of competitiveness of the region will be investigated. 
To achieve the goal it will be necessary to deal with the following tasks:
1. to study the literature from the research field 
2. to create a model and estimate its coefficients
3. to calculate competitiveness level  for all studied regions 
4. find the factors affecting competitiveness.
The paper consists of three parts which are (1) theoretical background presenting development or regional competitiveness approaches and existing approaches to it evaluation; (2) methodology describing the model employed; (3) predicted outcomes and research limitation

Theoretical background
This research relates to the research area that focuses on regional competitiveness. 
A number of authors have found that competitiveness plays an important role in economic growth. (Krugman, P., 1980; Mereuta, C., 2007; Porter, M., 1993).  Direct competition between regions has been regarded in the context of studies of fiscal federalism and assume as competition between the authorities of different levels. Subsequently, the theory of inter-regional competition will be developed in the context of globalization, the search for new sources of economic and the increasing role of regions in this process. Globalization is connected with the growing global interdependence and interaction in the world. A single information space has been actively developing over the past few years, also increasing interconnectedness in the production of goods and services, an increasing tendency to the international cooperation in the field of ecology. Moreover, international division of labor continues to increase. Globalization has significantly changed the composition of international actors, which now include regions as part of independent States.
In the research field area, many definitions for the concept of regional competitiveness and also enow methods for regional competitiveness can be found. (Melecke, L., & Nevima, J., 2011) In general, two concept of regional competitiveness can be isolated. Both of them associated with the names of two scientists, which are Paul Krugman and Michal Porter. 
According to the Porter theory, development of modern technologies and international competition has reduced the traditional role of an economic entity within a certain territory. (Porter, 1993). However, due to the increasing role of clusters in general role of territory is increasing. Clusters are a concentration of related industries in the same area. Location Company in cluster leads to lower costs, especially transport and transaction, which reduces the cost of the end-product, and consequently increase competitiveness of company. Thus, the natural factors play a smaller role, but at the same time, those production facilities, which are located in the region, country or municipality, provide a glimpse of its competitiveness. According to Porter cluster is a group of related companies, as well as related institutions, infrastructure, located in a certain area. These areas can be: cities, regions, states, or parts of neighboring countries. Study groups of companies such as clusters stresses the need to improve the coordination and sharing in the areas of joint interest, thereby reducing the risk of competition. (Porter, 1993)
The impact of clusters on the economy of the region is reflected in three aspects
1. Increase performance of all existing cluster members
2. Increase access to innovation for cluster members
3. Increases the emergence of new companies and expansion of the cluster
All advantages of clusters are based on the interaction between companies, manufacturing industries. A cluster is a combination of competition and cooperation.
The other approach to regional competitiveness associated with the most know theory for which Paul Krugman became known and for which he had received the Nobel Prize is the New Economic Geography.  The basis for the analysis in the framework of the new economic geography is the assumption of increasing returns to scale. The beginning of this trend takes on publication of the article Krugman's increasing returns and economic geography. 
Krugman in his articles states that increasing returns to scale leads to the further retention of the region in the development paradigm established for it: fast, slow or stagnant. However, there is a mechanism by which region can overcome the limitations of increasing returns to scale - is to increase their competitive advantage .
Thus, the competitiveness of the region, according to Krugman, has become a central component in its ability to perform its core functions: the development of the region and improve the quality of life of the population.
P.Krugman have proposed the following classification of factors of regional competitiveness. Firstly, any regional economy located in the space with their own characteristic, that is, factors that characterize the natural component of the region - "first nature" factors.  These include the natural resources as well as a favorable geographical position. Second, the regional economy is characterized by the result of human activity - factors "second nature." Among them he includes the agglomeration effect, development of infrastructure and institutions, human capital.  (Fujita.M., Krugman, P., 2004)
These studies generally focus on how some factors influence the other factors.  That 2 different approaches used by American researchers, but nowadays most articles related with RC published in EU. Therefore, it is necessary to examine their approach to RC.
According to Huggins a model underlying regional competitiveness divide all the factors of the region into three groups: inputs, outputs and results. This model explains the relationship between the main determinants of RC in the region and allows you to compare regions with each other. According to this model input factors are factors that directly affect the production of goods and services in the region, and, accordingly, these factors are the drivers of economic development of the regions. In a broader sense input factors include all the characteristics of the territory, allowing the residents of the region have a competitive advantage over other actors. For example, high-quality and extensive road network, or tax incentives that reduce the cost of the product and allow firms resident to compete on the basis of competitive strategy for Porter focus on minimizing costs.
Outputs Factors - factors that affect the human capital, fixed assets and financial resources available to the region. Most often, the study yields the factors researchers are turning to the development of "the creative class in the region, but also to more simple statistical indicators, such as the proportion of people with higher education in the labor force. (Florida, R., 2002). Also, according to this model, the inputs and outputs of factors the long-term impact on the results of the factors that are targets of the region -. GDP growth, however, according to the concept beyond GDP, macroeconomic actors should also in the long-term aim for a higher level of employment, the growth of real incomes of the population, and not only to the growth of gross domestic product.  (Stanculescu, O., 2013)

Methodology
In this part of work would be analyzed regional competitiveness. In general, the study methodology will be based on the Pareto-regularization methods and regular multiple regression on panel data will be used. As a basis in this  research The paper of Kuzminov will be employed. 
The model assumes that creation of aggregate indicator of regional competitiveness expressed in 4 outcomes factors proxies. There are labor productivity in the region (GDP per person employed), employment rate, regional exports per capita and tax revenues per capita. Using Pareto-regularization methods quantitative measure of competitiveness is obtained.
The next step will be using regular multiple regression on panel data in order to determine the influence level of the inputs and outcomes factors that affect the competitiveness of the region 
So, this approach allow approximate regional competitiveness at any moment of time. And more over it is allow to find the most significant inputs, outputs factors. 
The database will be received from Federal State Statistics Service and contains data about 83 Russian regions. According to the literature discussed earlier, a few hypotheses can be put forward. In total 25 indicators will be used.
H1: highest level of competitiveness will have federal cities and the oil-producing regions 
H2: the most important factors will be the volume of sales of mineral resources and the share of employees with higher education

Predicted outcomes 
This part of research proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained within the methods mentioned. Also here will be represent limitation of  the research.
In accordance with hypotheses above, I intend to obtain the following results. Firstly, it is assumed that both H1 and H2 will be proved and will be a considerable variation in competitiveness level through regions.  

Limitations of research
The limitations of this study are the following. Firstly, Russian regions are at different levels of economic development that's  they  might have different impact of different factors on their competitiveness. Second restriction related with a collecting statistics methodology by Federal State Statistics Service. That include missing data in some regions, (e.g. Chechen Republic in 2005).
