The images of cultural heroes are keys to understanding the beliefs of people at a certain stage of their development, and, from the point of view of many approaches to cultural hero, he or she is a unique phenomenon, which does not only serve as an example for everyone in a particular culture, but also serves as an ethnic consolidating power. In addition, the epic is important in the construction of national identity, serving as ideal examples, which were designed to show the superiority of group over its neighbors, its heroic past. After all, it is also used to legitimize certain actions and to strengthen group solidarity (Hobsbawm, 1992). The government led by the elite to reform various social traditions and symbols to form a new identity. Elite aims on creating norms and behavior, based on the social senses of history. In other words, a sense of belonging is rooted on constructed deep history. In turn, for the modern human identity it is an important support, because it represents a continuous connection to the traditions of the past and ensures the stability of society.
     
Nowadays there is lack of the works, which put the subject of study as epic traditions of the Finno-Permian peoples. Typically, these studies are only part of a larger works.

There is the problem of "designing" an epic. Doctor V.V. Napolskikh in his article "On the problem of the reconstruction of the Udmurt epic tradition", noted that modern Udmurt epic is often based on the reproduction of "local community" legends, created by researchers. For example, "The Song of the Udmurt Batyr" by M.G. Khudyakov, was definitely not authentic (Napolskikh, 2008, p.4). Nevertheless, whatever the content in terms of continuity was embodied in the considered epic tradition (and, nobody is going to deny the fact of its existence), this tradition may include constructed or 'invented' components, which must be found.
     
The aim is to determine the role and place of cultural heroes of images designed the system of formation of ethnic identity among the various peoples of the Finno-Permian.
     To achieve the goal I need to solve the following problems:
     1. Analyse of modern approaches to the epic in ethnology and comparative-historical linguistics.
     2. Identify models of "unstructured" epos in the Finno-Permian epic tradition (authentic epic).
     3. Identify patterns of violations in some epic works in the Finno-Permian epic tradition ("invented" epic).
     4. Identify distribution channels of "invented" epic and its influence on the formation of ethnic identity in the Finno-Permian epic tradition.

The practical result will be in reconstruction of the structure of authentic finno-permian heroic myth and proof that some modern myths are constructed in modern days.

The research is devoted to heroic myths, so the main question is linked to the nation construction processes. When those myths were created? When was the first publication of those myths? Who gathered those myths? What types of ideas are illustrated in the text - authentic or not? 

E.M. Meletinskiy defined the term «cultural hero» as the great creator and researcher, often of the divine origin. 	 
Many scholars have developed the concept of the cultural hero and have contributed to finding specific features in this field. I have outlined the three main approaches to it (Meletinskii, 2005). 
     
Another key term of my research is the «epic myths». This term is usually regarded as a mythical era of the first people, in which they tried to explain the world and conquer it with the help of heroes (Meletinskii, 2005). 

Literature used for writing the thesis can be divided into the following three categories:
     
1. Theories about epic heroes. Considering the majority of approaches to literary and epic heroes are devoted the "The Poetics of Myth" by E.M.Meletinskii (Meletinskii, 2005). Also, E. Evans-Pritchard in his work "History of anthropological thought", studied some aspects of evolutionary and sociological historical schools (Evans-Pritchard, 2003), while E. Tylor in his book "Primitive Culture", had worked in the framework of the evolutionary approach, considered a hero as a mean of transmission of moral standards (Tylor, 1989). T. Karleyl, in "Now and before", not only created a typology of characters, but also looked for heroic traits in historical figures (Karleyl, 1994). J. Campbell, one of the followers of psychoanalysis, in the book "Hero of thousand faces", gives his own typology of the characters, based on psychological archetypes (Campbell, 1997). C. Levi-Strauss in his book "Primitive thinking" outlined his "mediator theory", according to which characters in the myth playing the role of mediators of the revolutionary changes, that occur in society (Levi-Strauss, 2001). The theory of "Imaginary hero" was created by J. Le Goff in his book "Heroes and wonders of the Middle Ages", where any hero is a major component of social reality, which was constructed by man (Le Goff , 2012). V.Y. Propp in the "Morphology of Fairy Tales" considers characters as a reflection of the major changes in society, and also he reworked the structure-typological approach of descriptive in Mathematics (Propp, 1998). The reprocessed method of V.Y. Propp and modern typology of the characters are in article of V.V. Napolskikh and S.Y. Neklyudov "the problem of reconstructing the Udmurt epic tradition" (Napolskikh, 2010). Thus, there is an extensive tradition of studying epic heroes, that allows to see different aspects of the characters from different angles.
     
2. Literature on Ethnology of Finno-Permian peoples. In Russian science in the problem of reconstruction of Udmurt epic tradition were involved V.V. Napolskikh and S.Y. Nekludov in article "On the problem of the reconstruction of the Udmurt epic tradition". However, they considered not the entire epic as a whole, but only its separate elements - the structural elements of kicking lumps as the motive of the dispute between the heroes of the land, the way in which characters die, and how a dying character transfers its power to others (Napolskikh, 2010). But in fact, the work on the Komi epic as a whole simply does not exist, there are only small achievements. For example, there is an adjectives review to characters in works of V.N.Golovchanskii - although, in his work, he looked at it through the process of Christianization (Golovchanskii, 2006). Also I want to mention an article about typology of different Heroes in Udmurt tradition, made by G.N.Shushakova "Modifications folk-epic heroes in the literary narrative" (Shushakova, 2010). The study of Finnish heroes on the English on the basis of Ob-Ugric epic was created by Aaron Linthrop in the work "The great Oak and brother-sister" - considering them in the context of religion, including Christianity (Lintrop, 2001).
     
Despite the existence of various studies of Finno-Permian myths, those studies don`t consider a large set of epic works, and the whole elements of those epic - only their parts and fragments - like "kicking lumps" and where it came from, or in a separate context - mostly, religious one.
     
3. The literature on the constructivist approach. A.V. Koshaev in the article "Mari heroic epic "Yugorno": history, themes, issues, poetics". He was analyzing the result of creating the Mari heroic epic by Russian authors, who based their "creations" on the Mari folklore material (Koshaev, 2015). Practically similar research theme had M.N. Ozhegova in article "Historical basis of Komi Permian legends about Perya-the-hero", in which was found a strong influence of Russian epic on the creation of this myths, but this research doesn't say when this myth was created (Ozhegova, 1971). On the other hand, literary analysis was also made by A.M.Pahorukova in "Komi-Permian prose literature in the context of the Permian literature", where also were elements of constructivist approaches - for example in comparison with Nenets myths (Pahorukova, 1997).  
     
Research within the constructivist approach is rather an example of the approach to the myths and their initial processing, but all the researches have the problem of "lack of search of the origins" - there are no answers to the questions when and who created myths and legends.
     
In the first part of my research I use structural -typological approach, which was first used by A.I. Nikiforov and V.Y. Propp, and then, nowadays, it was finalized by V.V. Napolskikh. This is a literary method, which allows to reveal the structural parts of the text, to create its model, which might be compared with the models of other texts. Through this it will help to reveal the final, original structure common to epic myth in a particular culture.
     
Using the algorithm of structural-typological method, it is possible to identify structural parts in order to show the text's structure, and compress it into separate fragments, the sequence of events, going in chronological order. Thus, analysis of a whole group of texts, belonging to the same language group, will help to create a formula that expresses the structure of folklore. This formula will show which myths were created.
     
The basic method of work is E. Hobsbawm 's constructivist approach, which examines the emergence of the "invented" traditions. This process may be traced back through the process of formation rituals around the tradition, which should be fixed in the minds of a particular tradition as ancient, as well as through the breaks of continuity when there are "traditionalist" movement and mood (Hobsbawm, 1992). Thus, the time of the first publication of the author of the myth can give an answer to the causes of its creation.
 
Thus, by using structural-typological approach will be considered a large number of sources (30 myths), the structure of which will help to recreate the original structure of the Permian epic myth. Creation of the common structure will demonstrate a scheme of basic myths and allow reconstructing authentic Permian heroic myths. This common structure will help to weed out not authentic myths. 
     
In turn, the constructivist approach will help to reveal the story of the creation of not authentic sources, with what purpose they were created, and in what specific time, because of the isolation structures that are not original. With the help of tracking when and who published such myths, it can be exactly said what purpose these publications persecuted.  Involvement of archival sources will strengthen the evidence base, which was derived by using both described methods. 

So, during the work, the scheme of ancient Permian heroic epic has been identified.  It is only a part of the research, which helped to reveal the scheme, that helps to find the original texts, through establishing the sequence of motifs of epic myths, and allow weed "constructed" traditions.

The structuralism data allowed to proceed to the basic constructivist findings. Among the heroes are clearly borrowed Illia Muromech, Aldar, which structure is similar to the original, which indicates that they were borrowed after contacts with Russian culture. There is no doubt in the presence of clearly borrowed motives in the epic stories of Fedor Kieron, Kiryan-Varyan's  composition is very similar to the Russian folklore. The most important addition to this is the fact that the hero gets the epithet "The holder of Russian land" - and this epithet constructs Urgic ancestors as main nationality among others in Russia.

In the legends of Perya and Idna, on the other hand, there are motives of Christian martyrdom, asceticism, with turns to the Russian spiritual poetry - which only indicates that they were created with communication with Russian culture (Ulyashev,1999).

Some doubts are also in the epic stories of the first missionaries in which it all comes down to the fact that pagan sorcerer confronts a Christian priest, and the last victory is interpreted as a victory for Christianity. In this case, the formation of folk narrative was influenced by familiar stories, as missionaries attempted to combine myth and religion, creating a legend, where the Christian god more powerful than pagan - which is quite common move during a massive Christianization process (Lymerov, 2010).      