The study examines the problem of ideology in diaries of the Soviet province in the late Stalin era. The purpose of the research is to analyze the interaction of ideological and everyday discourses in Soviet people`s life. Methodologically, the research is conducted within the framework of microhistory, which helps to establish broad connections between text, individual intentions and macrohistorical context. The research is expected to result in interpretation of features of the ideological discourse use by people that will consistently fit into general patterns of the later Stalinist society. The results are intended to be easily adopted for representation of the role of ideology in everyday life of the Soviet person who lived in a province in the 1940s-50s. The project consists of an introduction, literature review, source description, methods, results anticipated, conclusion, and references.

The problem of ideology and everyday life interaction is considered as one of the most controversial issues in Soviet history. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main views to the issue under question. They deal with different attitudes to ways Soviet people interact with ideology. Some researchers suggest that Soviet people fully mastered the ideological discourse. Others emphasize the existence of a more complex concept. They propose that people mastered the ideological discourse using it only in particularly situations. Soviet people were not just passive ideological objects. 
Another aspect of the researched issue, which makes the concept of Soviet ideology stand out among other historical matters, is that peoples` private life was under the government`s meticulous control. The ideological discourse regulated not only the sphere of politics and education, but also dictated reference patterns to marriage, gastronomy, fashion, etc. The concept of the ideology impact on Soviet people life has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches are based on the analysis of official documents whereas in this work the problem under question deals with new ego-documents representing the issue from the view of a small person. Ego-documents specifically diaries allow us to see the reactions, judgments, feelings of the Soviet people, their relationship with social reality. The view on Soviet life from this position is completely different from the one demonstrated by the state. 

The aforesaid considerations raise a research problem, which is as follows: what aspects of social life in a private citizen living in the Soviet province in the 1940-50-s were more and less influenced by ideological discourse? I suppose that some aspects of social life could be referred to the issues of default topics that were not touched on by ideology of Soviet authorities. The study of these issues in regard of private life of the ordinary person will contribute to elaborating the problem of ideological language lack to describe default topics. In this connection, the Soviet man was forced to come up with his own language description instead of using newspaper templates. The aim of the research is to reveal ideological frames in everyday life of the Soviet person on the data of diaries written in the late Stalin era.
 
In conformity with the research aim the objectives are the following: 
to determine the place of ego-documents and diaries in particular in modern historical studies;
to establish the procedure of work with diaries using critical discourse analysis;
to examine Soviet people interaction with ideological discourse in the 1940-50s;
to analyze ideology boundaries in Soviet people everyday life. 

The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is limited by the period of late Stalinism in the Soviet province, that is, between 1940 and 1953. According to the requirement imposed by the methodology of microhistory, the study will concentrate mainly on everyday life of ordinary people, with not much attention paid to the state policy in the 1940-50-s. We look at the political sphere to analyze general context not government`s action in details. The last limitation deals with a restricted access to considered type of sources. Finding a voluminous and meaningful diary is a complex process.

The study would be of value and useful because many issues regarding ideological discourse in person`s everyday life have not been studied properly yet. However, in recent years, considerable attention has been paid to this particular area of Soviet time studies. Thus, this research will fit into contribute to the contemporary historiographical trend. 
       
The work also explores the possibilities of the microhistorical approach as applied to the history of the Soviet Union – the period typically considered insufficiently thoroughly from the position of the private citizen. However, in the case of province diaries the task of microhistorical analysis seems possible to carry out. And this can be of paramount interest to scholars and students of History programmes.

The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to Soviet history, which can be divided into source-oriented and problem-based studies. They will be reviewed consistently.

The academic tradition on Soviet everyday life researches dates back to the period after USSR`s collapse in the 1990-s. The one of the first attempt to critically assess a Soviet man was made by Natalya Kozlova (2005). She furnished his edition of this source with an article, which gave a broad theoretical basis for further research. The author pays special attention to “human documents” and their analysis allows to describe in detail the life world of Soviet people. The historian emphasizes that, in comparison with previous historical experience, we are faced with a new society type - modernity society. For an up-to-date analysis it is logical to turn to more recent publications by N. Lebina, S. Fitzpatrick, O. Leibovich and O. Kharkhordin (1999). A historian and culturologist N. Lebina (2015), in her recent work on the basis of diverse sources describes various aspects of Soviet life. Her research focuses on changing power politics in the 1920s and 1950s. in the field of gastronomy, housing, clothing, family relations. The author also turns to the traditional anomalies in Soviet society - drunkenness, crime and prostitution, exploring the transformation of attitudes towards them. The article by O. Leibovich (2009) is conceptually important for our study. The Perm historian formulates the definition of the term “everyday life”, referring to the paradigm of the school of feminology. Furthermore, the work of the American historian S. Fitzpatrick (2008) dedicated to the daily life of “little people” in urban space. It describes practices, ways of adapting Soviet man to Stalinism. 

As regards Soviet ideology studies, one of the most comprehensive surveys so far has been the monograph by Evgeny Dobrenko (2007), who deals with Soviet historical experience in order to explain the mechanism of the institution of socialist realism. Dobrenko’s interest in the culture of the Stalin era predetermined the choice of the research`s sources. Analyzing a large array of sources - works of fine art, literature, architecture, photography and films, the author demonstrates how the representative strategies of Stalinism influenced the change in socialist realism and the birth of real socialism. The value of this work is impossible to overestimate. The The American historian Stephen Kotkin studies the problem of ideological language in the everyday life of a resident of the Soviet city. In his work about the life of workers at the Magnitogorsk factory, the phenomenon of the “bolshevik language” is investigated. Kotkin (1995) emphasizes that a person is faced with the need to use the language of authorities. This skill made it possible to obtain concrete benefits. By assimilating the new rules of urban life, people became part of the “social game”.

A comprehensive research of the study of Soviet diaries of 1920-1930-s made by american professor Jochen Hellback (2001, 2009). His work (2006) is about the phenomenon of “Soviet man”, using materials from the diaries of S. Podlubny, who fled from the persecution of authorities in the city, representatives of the urban intelligentsia Z. Denisievskaya and others. The heroes of his book do not just describe their everyday affairs and events. The diary for them is an instrument of self-identification and self-education. Analyzing the changes that have occurred in the country, the authors of the diaries are trying to formulate their personal attitude to the new government, to understand themselves in the context of the Soviet collective. Hellbeck's methodological position is to represent the Soviet man as a subject, not free from a powerful ideology, the consciousness of which is sincerely devoted to the party. I. Paperno (2004) and A. Pinsky (2014) also work under the problems connected with diaries of the Soviet time.

Moreover, for the analysis of ideological discourse in everyday life, we turn to the methodology of critical discourse analysis of Teun A. van Dijk (1993). The work of a European scientist is devoted to a theoretical explanation of the methods, features and structure of critical discourse analysis. The study of discourse allows us to consider the influence of the ideology of power on society. The author demonstrates the scheme of work using the described approach on the example of the problem of racism in modern society.

Thus, over the last couple of decades the scholars’ interest in Soviet history has been increasing steadily. The problems raised in the researches also tend to become more and more diverse, from the studies about small details of Soviet everyday life like the yolka tree in the USSR to big controversial issues like political repression in the Soviet.  

Since the work deals with discursive practices in personal diaries, the primary method is discourse analysis by Teun A. van Dijk. It involves the interpretation of textual forms of ideological discourse reproduction in everyday life of Soviet people. However, the process of interpretation is a procedure that needs to be based on a consistent methodology. For this study, the theory of everyday life was adapted as a frame of reference. This method helps to illuminate the ideological borders and mechanisms at the level of individuals, which correspond the main purpose of the research. The theory of everyday life initially emerged as a part of the anthropological turn in the 60s of the twentieth century. The focus of everyday life history is a reality that is interpreted by people and has subjective significance for them as an integral life world. The idea behind the new methodology was a comprehensive study of the repetitive, normal and familiar, that is constructing the lifestyle of representatives of different social layers, including emotional reactions to life events and behavior motives. This method is developing, and this work is one of the first to explore its possibilities in regard of ideological discourse in daily life of Soviet people, where sources of personal and local provenance are scarce.

The theory of everyday life enables this research to foreground concern for personal texts written by residents of the Soviet province as documents reflecting discursive practices. In interpreting semantic forms of ideological discourse reproduction, a pivotal element should be the understanding of the period context. An analysis of the Soviet language reflected in the diaries allows us to learn more about the influence and role of ideological discourse in person`s everyday life. Thus, the theory of everyday life gives rise to a new set of questions concerning personal reflection on the macrohistorical context and its subsequent incorporation into one’s own action strategies. 

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to four specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the determination of the place of ego-documents and diaries in particular in modern historical studies; then the establishing of the procedure of work with diaries using critical discourse analysis; after that the study will examine Soviet people interaction with ideological discourse in the late Stalin era; and finally the ideology boundaries in Soviet people everyday life will be surveyed in terms of the cultural conflict between a person and authorities. 

To sum up, working with diaries allows us to study the boundaries of ideological discourse. The use of critical discourse analysis for the interpretation of semantic textual forms in diaries seems productive. The discursive practices described in the work give an idea of ​​the functioning of ideology in the everyday life of a resident of the Soviet province. The tendency of the human discourse reproduction, direct borrowing had a place to be. However, the existing of literary narrative show limitations of the official language. The use of mastered ideological patterns had a positive effect for the subject not in all cases. In areas such as intimate relationships, power strategies lost control and put a person in a conflict situation, which encouraged him to act creatively and design his own description language.