The Kingdom of Pontus is one of the most original of Hellenism. It was founded in the VI. BC as a small state which was dependent on the Persians. Soon, it became one of the largest centers of the Hellenistic world in the II-I centuries BC. At this time the king of Pontus becomes VI Eupator (Dionysus). This study should help to create the phenomenon of royal power in the kingdom of Pontus in the times of Mithridates VI Eupator, and to find the principles on which this phenomenon was formed.

The explanation of the phenomenon of the Mithridates royal power answers the question about the relevance of my work: nowadays, there is a search of a national identity in Russia, so an example and tools of building this identity in Pontus can be helpful in our time. In addition, the modern scientific community that deals with the researching of the Kingdom of Pontus, were not fully involved in the researching of the phenomenon of imperial power at this kingdom, so, my research can fill the gap.
Problem Statement. The main purpose of the research is to consider the phenomena of the royal power in the Kingdom of Pontus during the reign of Mithridates VI Eupator.

There are the following tasks based on the purpose of work:
- To identify the technology of the royal propaganda of Mithridates Eupator;
- To solve the problem of legitimizing his power;
- To consider the changes in the internal politics of Pontus;
- To identify the main features of the reformation of the army at the time of Mithridates;
- To consider the question of changing the local power in Pontus.

The first task will help us to answer the main question of my course work about the king Mithridates uniqueness and how Mithridates Eupator became so popular ruler in Asia Minor. 
The second task is logically connected with the first one. Due to it there will be done particular corollaries about the youth of Mithridates, and what is more important, solving the second task will help us to find out how Mithridates became the ruler of the Kingdome of Pontus. 

The third task allows us to evaluate the nature of changes Mithridates’s entourage, in what way he formed it, reformed and whom he gave the control of the Kingdom of Pontus.
The fourth task is in fact the first for Mithridates, because a strong army to Pontus is a guarantor of stability and success in the international arena. Mithridates quite successfully and skilfully carried out reforms in the army.
Fifth task is as an important point of our study, as long as question of changing the processes of power in the satrapies of Pontus is a guarantor of reliable rear for Mithridates during the Mithridatic wars.

The range of issues which are considered in this paper is defined by a simple way: what will help us to make a psychological portrait of Mithridates Eupator, and thus create the phenomenon of his imperial power. Thus, we will draw an attention to the historical background of the formation of Mithridates as a king of Pontus, to his family tree, to the myth questions around his figure, imposed primarily by his father Pharnaces. Special focus will be carried out on the reforms in the army made by Mithridates (the army in the Hellenistic world is the main tool to achieve political and economic objectives). What is more, there will be considered the question about the changing of the control system of local power, what Mithridates changed exactly and what dividends it was paid to him as to strengthen its position at the head of Pontus. And finally, there will be consider the point about changing entourage of Mithridates Eupator, how it changed and reformed.

Definitions of key terms. 
1. CP – Climate of the Past
2. CAH – Community Archaeology & Heritage
3. BCH – Bulletin de Correspondance Hell?nique
4. RE – Real Estate

First of all, psychological portrait of Mithridates VI is very important for us. It can be made up for the biographical clippings, but as the study of the personality and biography Mithridates made an enormous number of scientists, there is no need to affect all aspects of biography, except those moments which can help us in the development of this issue.

The biography of Mithridates VI Eupator is the most studied among the kings of Pontus Empire. All the scientists, whose studies were somehow connected with the history of the Kingdom of Pontus, wrote about this ruler. At first this question was rised by Rinetsiem in the XVI century. The study made by Rinetsiem was connected only with the family tree of Pontic kings (Reineccius, 1570). Despite this fact, he gave the foundation for future research of Pontus, including Mithridates Eupator.

The First, for real qualitative research, dealing exclusively with Mithridates Eupator was the work of T. Reinach (Reinach, 1890). His monograph "Mithridates Eupator, king of Pontus" became fundamental for future generations of researchers of Pontus. In his work he answers the questions that were raised earlier in studying of Mithridates Eupator. However, as noted by S.Y. Saprykin, the work of T. Reinach is not enough fundamental, though, affecting many important issues (Saprykin, 1996,  p. 8).

After T. Reinach there was a "boom" in the study of Mithridates. A lot of new monographs are published, such as J. Anderson (Anderson, 1902) F. Cumont (Cumont, 1910) and X. Gregoire (Gregoire, 1909). Mithridates became interesting for Soviet scientists, such as M.I. Rostovtseff (Rostovtseff, 1951), in the future, E.A .Molev  (Molev,1995) and S.Yu. Saprykin (Saprykin, 1996). All these works were qualitatively explored during the work with these studies, which allowed to come to the following conclusion: in general historiographical complex of researching Mithridates Eupator was formed rather massive to nowadays, so it is quite difficult to apply in this regard to the relevance and novelty, but despite that fact, there is a great gap in west and Soviet historiography in the context of the phenomenon of royal power, especially in the times of Mithridates Eupator.
It was necessary to refer to the narrative sources of the time to solve this problem. Thus, in this study the following works of ancient authors were used: "Roman History" and "Mithridatic War" Appian of Alexandria, "Stratagem" Polyaenus, "War and Catalina Yugurfinskaya" Sallust, "Questions" Plutarch, "Geography. Book X” Strabo, “Comparative biography in two volumes” Plutarch and “the Epitome works Pompey Trogus" Justin.

Thus, it helped us to answer on our range of questions.

The history of great Mithridates began to write in 132 BC .e. As Justin evidenced: the birth of Mithridates was welcomed by the comet fame and grandeur, the magnitude they occupied almost a quarter of the sky and its light eclipsed - Solar (Justin, XXXVII, 2, 3).
If this facts still may well succumb to modern logic, but the fact that this light lit diaper young Mithridates, and left his mark on the forehead of a lifetime (as the god Dionysus) (Plut. Quaest. Conv. 1.62) is the purest water mythmaking.
And this is no coincidence. Euergetes, the father of Mithridates, realized that he needed an heir who successfully completes his beginnings, so it was he who began to write Eupator Dionysus, a great history since the cradle.

Euergetes began the process of "fusion of Persian and Hellenistic traditions in the families of the Hellenistic nobility in Pontus" (Molev, 1995 p. 22). So, the nickname given to the young Mithridates, was absolutely justified in the foreign policy of the king, in fact, neither before nor after either one king of Pontus was not wearing the nickname of the Greek God.

And it was the birth of the country's Dionysus, son, as we know by giving Zeus, could only mean one thing – immunity Eupator. Besides, because imposed upon Euergetes Hellenic culture, people prescribed Pontus troubles when the young Dionysus would be dead. According to the myths: "Wherever this god came, he taught people everywhere to grow grapes, but it was accompanied by madness and violence." Therefore, the birth of Mithridates was greeted in Sinop mass celebrations and mass "madness", says Pompey Trog (Justin, XXXVII, 2, 7).
Largely because of this, Mithridates managed to defend his right to the throne and continued to legitimize its power by building around a variety, favorable to him, myths. Mithridates actively begins to assert that he was a relative on his father's side of Cyrus and Darius I, and maternal - Alexander the Great and Seleucus I Nicator (Justin, XXXVII, 7). This issue gives an accurate remark E. Meyer, he asks us to turn our attention that even since Mithridates II, the Pontic kings start to take for their wives Seleucid princess (Meyer, 1879, p. 68-69).

In simple terms, due to the complex of myths around his figure, Mithridates since his youth had at its disposal completely intact: it allowed him to conduct its policy untied his hands.
Mithridates Eupator came to power by violence after murder of his mother and brother, it was not typical for Pontus, moreover, the fact that his father was poisoned in 120 BC Sinop (Mayor, 2009, p . 68).

The power of the king in the Kingdom of Pontus was absolute and unlimited, but the fact that the king Mithridates belonged to the Hellenistic culture, implied the  merging of the best qualities of western and eastern traditions. The power in Ponte was responsible for justice (Geyer, 1978); thus, the king of Pontus should be a guarantee of honesty, a kind of a judge of honor. In this regard, Mithridates should follow the covenant of his old relative Darius I: «... I - this love that I have for true friend for unfair I - foe. Not so my desire to tolerate injustice for the weak strong, nor is my desire to put up a strong injustice for the weak. My desire - to justice. Liar, I am not one "(Oparin, 2003, p. 80].

The king's inner circle were so-called "friends." Friends - an institution that has been known to the Persian Hellenistic kingdoms. According to Plutarch, "friends" dressed in purple clothes and were probably rich enough: the horses were "colored luxurious trappings." Moreover, as we see in one of the example of Plutarch's "friends" were appointed by the king himself and "other" could be anyone: let this girl's father (Stratonicea), which Mithridates wished to marry (Plutarch, Pompey, 36).
In Pontus kings usually leave earlier friends! This is due to the fact that power in Pontus, as a rule, was replaced by peaceful means.
But Mithridates fed differently: once in power, he eliminated with all the friends of his father except the old wars (which he needed for the Great War) (Molev, 1995, p. 35). Mithridates limited circle of friends and appoints two new key positions in the country: from the Greek literally "head of the dagger," and "the chief of medicine" (Reinach, 1890, p. 458). The first involved the protection of the emperor, the second - his treatment. The following officials were already lower rank, there were the following positions: "charge of the affairs of the investigation", "Veda secret things", "charge of the affairs of justice" (Reinach, 1890, p 370).
Thus, Mithridates trying to get rid of unnecessary bureaucratic posts, especially no opinion could not be taken without consulting with friends (Welles, 1993, c. 22), and on the testimony of Appian, friends could be sentenced to death (Appian, Mithridatic War II, 47). It turned out that the first thing to do in the internal device is that Mithridates of Pontus restricted circle of persons who may in any way affect his decision. So, the circle of friends consisted of five people plus an undetermined number of persons from the "military" friends of his father. This helped Mithridates streamline its power and make it even more absolute.
Mithridates also decided to streamline the system of distribution of local power: he decides to give up his subordinates the revenues from tax collection in local places, for example, it says Strabo: his maternal grandfather was the chief of the strength (Strabo, XII, 3.3). But instead subordinates must unquestioningly obey the decrees of Mithridates, because there was no data on donation of administrative rights.

Networking issues with the management of the state locally that during the early reign was not great, ordering immediate management problems - all this has become a prerequisite for the main purpose in Mithridates’s life - to provide military assistance to neighboring states from the oppression of Rome.
"Soon after his return to the yard of the kings of Pontus, as in Bithynia, it becomes like a military camp. Hellenic advisers and leaders of military units, veterans of Euergetes and "friends" of the king under his personal leadership engaged in hasty preparation of the army and navy for the coming battles "(Molev, 1995, p. 35).
Doing this was necessary because the army in Pontus at the time was in a deplorable condition, and more than seven years have not led active hostilities (Molev, 1995, p. 36).
Mithridates begins to reform the army. He begins with the personal protection of the king. Since that time, units began to consist partly of cavalry and infantry part of Mithridates. Also institute in the army garrisons were changed: According to Appian, the position of commandant of the citadel becomes significant and indicative of the royal trust (Appian, 1, XII, 15). Chiefs got fortresses and implicitly rights to hold them in its policy, thereby giving credibility to Mithridates. From now forbidden to enter the castle without the permission of the fortress (probably it sets strict discipline) who violate the order slaves were subjected to scourging and free people - "blame yourself" (Saprykin, 1996, p. 104).
The Reformation of the army led to the fact that it was the strongest in Asia Minor. Later, she was quite successful in wars with the Roman Empire: the success of the reforms supported, first of all, the success of the Reformation in the external control of the state, and, of course, cleaning the inner circle of Mithridates.

As for the methodology, it is based on the methods of: historical-systematic and historical-comparative.
Historical-systematic method is one of the main methods of historical research, which implemented the principles of the system approach. Historical-systematic method aims to study objects and phenomena of the past as integral historical systems: analysis of their structure and function, internal and external communications (morphology), as well as dynamic changes (Genesis). Within  this method the problem of correlation of the model with the actual manifestations of the object and the assessment of the ability of the model to "predict" or to "reconstruct" the behavior of the system is solving. The peculiarity of the historical-systemic method performs extensive use along with general scientific methods based on logical judgment, systems analysis and mathematical modeling.
Historical and comparative method has broad cognitive abilities. Firstly, it allows revealing the essence of the phenomena being investigated in cases where it is not obvious on the basis of the facts available; identifying common and repetitive necessary and natural, on the one hand, and the different quality - on the other. Thus, the gaps are filled, and bring to a conclusion the study species. Second, the historical-comparative method makes it possible to go beyond the phenomena under study and on the basis of analogies to come to broad historical parallels.
It is also widely distributed to the historical-genetic method, involving the gradual penetration into the past in order to identify the causes of the events that have already occurred. And as Pontus "past" is a narrative sources, the historical-genetic method will work only through the prism of historical-comparative, through comparison of sources to each other.

Mithridates VI Eupator Dionysus, has successfully conducted a reformation of the army, because the strength and power of the army depended on the success of the kingdom of Pontus in the international arena. This had contributed to a number of factors: first, Mithridates Eupator received an excellent education and, thus, had an absolutely brilliant in theory basis for its reforms. Secondly, Mithridates decides to continue his father's work: he accepts the rules of the international game and playing on two fronts. On the one hand, he enlists the help of the eastern population of his kingdom, with another - Hellenistic population. In this respect benefits all areas of life in the kingdom of Pontus: Army receives Greek military tactical training, the city of the south are beginning to get richer at the expense of an established trade with the north, east, starting to get technology and education in the west. 
Next Mithridates got rid of unwanted in the courtyard people by reducing the number of people who could influence his decision. He reformed the institution of "friends", reducing the number of friends up to five people - now on the power of the state, roughly speaking; it belongs to only five people.

It puts at the head of the satrapies powerful henchmen, giving them economic guarantees in exchange for faithful service. Fortunately, Mithridates could easily pay for the service of his lieutenants, as long as the economic situation in the country was beyond praise: says about this huge and vast royal coinage.

Naturally, all these successes would not be if the young Mithridates did not get power. King cleverly figured out with his mother and brother, largely due to the myths around his figure, which his father began to write. It is difficult to assess the significance of these myths in the question of legitimizing the power of Mithridates; however, we do believe that without his father so productive and far-sighted in this respect, Laodike would get rid of Mithridates, like Nis and Cleopatra.
By emphasizing the similarity between Mithridates and Dionysus, Mithridates again killed two birds with one arrow; he justified his integrity in the state and become the object of worship for the Pontus Greeks. These are the expected results have helped us to create the phenomenon of royal power, which is more accurately described in prison.

Exploring the phenomenon of royal power in the kingdom of Pontus, we paid attention to the fact that the uniqueness of the dynasty Mitridiatidov is that they, having initially small chance to strengthen in Asia Minor. Despite this fact, we can see that in the end they build one of the most successful nations in the history of Hellenistic world.

By the time of Mithridates Eupator this formula was changed, because he inherited from his father an economically and politically stable country, and all that was required of Mithridates  is to save the power of Pontus.
However Eupator decides not to dwell on the achievements of his father, and he was not going to make from Pontus power, which could well compete with the strongest army in the ancient world - the Roman.

The phenomenon of royal power in the Mithridates Eupator is to comply with them the following sets of measures:
- Mithridates with fluctuated success usied its propagandistic machine, which allows him to achieve its objectives;
- Mithridates, with varying success participated in foreign policy, seizing the territory of Asia Minor and went to war with the Roman Empire;
- In domestic policy he was dealing with bureaucracy: thus, putting under strict control any decision in the state.
Exactly the following of all these factors has enabled us to identify the phenomenon of imperial power in the era of Mithridates Eupator, which helped him to become the greatest king of Pontus.