St. Columbanus is considered one of the most controversial figures in the early history of Western monasticism. His achievements in founding and managing monasteries are as remarkable as his uncompromising struggle with authorities for what in his opinion was right for the Christian Church. Both of these activities were closely related and stipulated each other. 
     
Another thing about Columbanus, which makes him stand out among his contemporaries, is that his life and deeds are documented not only in hagiography, but also in his own writings. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern historical approaches have special appreciation for personal documents as they reflect another dimension of historical reality that is individual consciousness. Columbanus’s letters, sermons and monastic rules have been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous research seems to lack a comprehensive concept that could put all the diverse accounts of his personality and activity into the context of the historical period, highlighting his otherness in one kind of situations as well as his conformity in another.
     
Problem statement. The aforesaid considerations raise a general research problem, which is as follows: to what extent could a monastic leader intervene in non-monastic, i.e. theological and secular matters? After this crucial question is imposed, it can be further accentuated by the issues of external and internal reactions to this involvement, that is to say that the response of other actors such as royalty, episcopacy, papacy and the monastic community itself should be taken into account. A study of these issues in regard of St. Columbanus’s activity will contribute to elaborating the problem of monastic developments in the late sixth – early seventh century Gaul. 
     
With that being said, the purpose of this research is to reveal the potential and limitations of abbatial power as exemplified in St. Columbanus’s interaction with secular and ecclesiastical elites of Merovingian Gaul.
     
In order to achieve the proposed aim, it is necessary to complete the following tasks: 
1. to determine the main features of Columbanus’s monastic community as an institution represented by its abbot;
2. to establish the status of the abbot in Columbanian monasteries and to analyze Columbanus’s own image as a charismatic leader;
3. to examine Columbanus’s interaction with Frankish rulers and nobility;
4. to analyze Columbanus’s participation in ecclesiastical conflicts.
 
The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is constrained to the period of Columbanus’s sojourn in Gaul, that is, between 590 and 612. According to the requirement imposed by the methodology of microhistory, the study will concentrate mainly on Columbanus, with not much attention paid to the parallel monastic developments in Gaul, which range from ancient Gallic cloisters such as L?rins or Marmoutier to royal foundations of Sainte-Croix in Poitiers or St. Marcel in Chalon-sur-Sa?ne.

The study would be of value and interest because many questions regarding early medieval monasticism have not been answered properly yet. However, in recent years, considerable attention has been paid to this particular area of medieval studies. Thus, this research will fit into the contemporary historiographical trend. 
     
The work also explores the possibilities of microhistorical approach as applied to the history of the Early Middle Ages – the period typically considered too poor in terms of primary source material. However, in the case with Columbanus the task of microhistorical analysis seems possible to carry out. 
     
The theoretical basis of the research is formed by three concepts: monasticism, elite, and Merovingian Gaul. The first concept – monasticism – does not belong to the highly debated notions; however, it is still worth explaining. A Russian scholar L. Karsavin defined it as “a historical form of realization of an ascetic ideal” (Êàðñàâèí 1912, ïåðåèçä. 2012, ñ. 5). In addition, its regular organization should be emphasized, as opposed to individual ascesis:  it implied a systematic obedience to given rules in order to achieve a spiritual union with the divine in life and death. As far as social status is concerned, M. Weber claimed that monasticism was “an elite group of religious virtuosos within a community of believers” (Weber, 1980, S. 696).
     
This requires an explanation of the next key term – the elite. Most commonly, this term refers to groups defined by their superior or privileged status and access to political power (cf. Mosca, 1939; Pareto, 1935). This applies to the groups, which are under scrutiny in this study, namely secular and ecclesiastical elites of the Frankish kingdoms. However, a pivotal remark should be added that in the case of traditional society an elite group is essentially an aristocratic kin group (Fox, 2014, p. 12).
     
The concept of Merovingian Gaul is the easiest to explain by slightly changing the definition proposed by P. Fouracre: the lands subject to the overlordship of the Frankish Merovingian dynasty since the early sixth century – that is, the area coinciding with the former Roman client state of Gallia (modern France and the Benelux countries) and German lands along the length of Rhine (Fouracre, 1990, p. 3-4).
          
The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to Columbanus, which can be divided into source-oriented and problem-based studies. In what follows, the two categories will be reviewed systematically.
     
The academic tradition on St. Columbanus dates back to the beginning of the twentieth century. The first attempt to critically assess “Vita Columbani” was made by B. Krusch in 1905. He furnished his edition of this source with an article, which gave a broad theoretical basis for further research (Krusch, 1905). However, from the contemporary point of view, Krusch’s examination of the text seems to be preoccupied with facts and events, whereas the unconventional and miraculous aspects are neglected. For an up-to-date analysis it is better to turn to more recent publications by I. Wood and A. O’Hara (Wood, 1982; O’Hara, 2009). Both authors investigate the issues of sources, audience and influence of the “Vita Columbani” on the hagiographical tradition. The way of solving these problems, proposed by each scholar, is however different, due to the use of specific approaches. Wood regards the life as an instrument to express authority in that he considers it to be an elaborate form of monastic rule as well as a claim on royal privileges for Columbanian foundations. It is also Wood’s intention to highlight “the limitations of the life, imposed by the concern of the author” (Wood, 1982, p. 63). In the article by O’Hara the emphasis is made on the wide appeal of the “Vita Columbani” among the possible audiences. The scholar suggests that the text had a more significant dissemination in Merovingian Gaul than it has hitherto been acknowledged serving as a prospectus of monastic life in Columbanus’s cloisters for all those who were interested. Both works therefore shed a new light on the issues revealed in the “Vita Columbani”.
     
As far as Columbanus’s letters are concerned, one of the most comprehensive surveys so far has been the monograph by J.W. Smit, where the author in the tiniest detail analyses words and passages of unclear meaning (Smit, 1971). The value of this work is impossible to overestimate. The linguistic material carefully gathered by Smit can be now encountered from the post-structuralist perspective in terms of understanding the individuality through the language. A similar study, which in fact inspired Smit’s book, belongs to the academic editor of the epistles – G.S.M. Walker. In his survey, he concentrates on the Greek words used by Columbanus attempting to explain the cultural context of the saint’s education (Walker, 1949/50).
     
Other investigations on letters of Columbanus include works by N. Wright and T. Leso (Wright, 1997; Leso, 2013). These two articles differ from those discussed above in that they deal with the overall content of the epistles in a historical rather than linguistic perspective. Both authors also share the same premise, namely viewing all six letters as a whole and not dividing them into thematic sections. This approach makes it possible to build a complex perception of the individuality behind the writings. The specific objective of Wright’s publication is to analyze the style of the letters and reveal probable influences and reminiscences, while Leso’s primary concern is to grasp the connection between Columbanus’s position in theological debates and his relationship with the secular world.
     
It is worth pointing out that Wright’s article is a part of a collection of essays devoted to Columbanus, which introduces a number of interesting studies. One of such studies particularly relevant for this research is an article on Columbanus’s career by D. Bullough (1997). Although author’s approach appears to be somewhat limited to the factual side of the saint’s biography, its significance manifests itself in the use of multiple sources of Irish as well as of continental origin.
     
As for the problem-oriented research, for a long time it has been addressing the question of Columbanus’s monastic program. Its crucial role in European monasticism was outlined by the renowned Russian historian L.P. Karsavin as early as in 1912 (Êàðñàâèí, 1912, ïåðåèçä. 2012). Almost a century later N.F. Uskov attempted to deepen and push forward Karsavin’s ideas. In his study of early European monasticism, he demonstrated how Columbanian houses helped establish monastic autonomy (Óñêîâ, 2001). A discussion of innovations brought to the Gallic tradition by Columbanus was also submitted by J. Wallace-Hadrill in his fundamental monograph on the Frankish Church (Wallace-Hadrill, 1983). Another British scholar and a specialist in the Celtic studies – T. Charles-Edwards – also put forward a number of innovative assumptions concerning the symbolical frame of Columbanian monasticism (Charles-Edwards, 2000). His work is particularly significant because he skillfully uses the data from Irish sources to contrast the differences between Columbanus’s convictions and those of his Frankish milieu. 
     
One of the latest historiographical trends in studies on Columbanus is the analysis of his relationships first with his disciples and followers and second with Frankish elites. The scholar, who pioneered the way to the research in this area, was I. Wood. In one of his papers (Wood, 1998) he shifts the stress to the development of Columbanus’s monastic network after the saint’s death by emphasizing the role of royal and papal privileges. In arguing that Columbanian monasteries were in the middle of political confrontation between different parties, Wood adopts a very shrewd approach: as the subject of analysis in the “Vita Columbani”, he chooses obvious errors in the narrative. He reckons that an error often says more about the author’s intentions and the overall frame of mind than any accurately reported fact. This method proves to be effective and renders Wood’s article exceedingly valuable for further research.
     
A similar direction of studies is represented by a milestone article by A. Diem, which bears upon the political implications of sanctity (Diem, 2007). The approach applied in the paper is in itself based on the concept of the “holy man” introduced by P. Brown in his famous program article (Brown, 1971). Diem transformed this concept to describe Columbanus’s model of sanctity, whereas he put forward the idea of sanctity extending to the holy community instead of being a feature of a single holy person. Accordingly, a strictly established set of rules, which is applied to the relationship between the holy man and the layman is transposed to the community and its connections with the world.
     
The issue of sanctity and politics is also the subject of the most recent study by Y. Fox, where a successful attempt has been made to analyze the role of the royalty and the aristocracy in developing Columbanian foundations (Fox, 2014). By shifting the emphasis from the monasteries to their patrons, the monograph explores the strategies, through which “the Frankish elites exploited the monastic medium to further their wider political goals” (ibid. p. 11-12). Wide use of prosopographic material allows the author to establish a firm connection between the aristocratic involvement into monastic founding and forming of the family and clan identity of the Frankish nobles.
     
As the review has clearly showed, over the last couple of decades the scholars’ interest in Columbanus and his writings has been increasing steadily. The problems raised in the literature also tend to become more and more diverse, from Columbanus’s monastic program to instruments of political power in Merovingian Gaul. In addition, there is an inclination to narrow the topics to particular aspects of Columbanus’s activity and functioning of his monasteries. None of the present-day works on Columbanus can be defined as a complex study encompassing different levels of medieval reality, from political to intellectual. 

Since the work uses exclusively narrative sources, the primary approach used is historical interpretation. As opposed to hermeneutics, it is aimed at “understanding” rather than explanation of the source. However, the process of interpretation is a procedure that needs to be based on a consistent methodology. For this study, the microhistorical approach was adapted as a frame of reference. This method helps to illuminate the functioning of general tendencies at the level of individuals, which corresponds the main purpose of the research. Microhistory initially emerged in the 1970-s by dint of the works of such scholars as E. Le Roy Ladurie (1975), C. Ginzburg (1976) and G. Levi (1985). The idea behind the new methodology was to depart from the traditional history of social structures by including unique personal phenomena into the field of historical studies. This method is a still evolving one, and this work is one of the first to explore its possibilities in regard of the Early Middle Ages, where sources of personal and local provenance are scarce.
     
Microhistory enables this research to foreground concern for personal texts written by St. Columbanus as documents reflecting individual perception of general tendencies of the epoch. In interpreting Columbanus’s writings, a pivotal element should be the conflict of two paradigms: the Celtic and Frankish ones. Analysis of the permanent discord, which Columbanus experienced since his arrival on the Continent, can elucidate the problem of cultural barriers, their causes and overcoming possibilities in the early medieval societies. This is a classical Toynbee’s challenge-and-response situation transposed to the personal level. For Columbanus this cultural challenge was a factor, which determined his model of interaction with his Frankish contacts. Thus, the microhistorical approach gives rise to a new set of questions concerning personal reflection on the macrohistorical context and its subsequent incorporation into one’s own action strategies. 

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to four specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the main features of Columbanus’s monastic community will be determined according to its representation in Columbanus’s letters and monastic rules as well as in the “Vita Columbani”; then, the status of the abbot will be established from these same documents; after that, the study will demonstrate two strategies of Columbanus’s interaction with the secular elites of Merovingian Gaul, which are union and confrontation; and finally Columbanus’s position in the ecclesiastical conflicts will be surveyed in terms of the cultural conflict between the Celtic and the Frankish world. These findings will serve to establish diverse patterns of Columbanus’s relationships with different groups of elites, which will then be put together to formulate a comprehensive model of communication with the world outside the monastery. This model is intended to explain individual ways of creating and managing an influential monastic community as they reflect the cultural and intellectual background of the personality behind them. However, it should be mentioned that the implications presented in the study do not aspire to be incontestable and will be open to further academic debates.

To summarize all the questions considered earlier, the research presented contributes significantly to the studies of early medieval monasticism on an individual level. Mechanisms of establishing connections between the monastery and the outside world are explored on a specific example with the help of the microhistorical approach, which is adjusted for the work in a timeframe disregarded by the most of its adherents. Columbanus’s complex patterns of interaction can be roughly reduced to two main strategies: cooperation and confrontation. The former is used in relations with secular patrons in order to obtain lands and immunities for the cloisters in exchange for the saint’s prayers and securing abbatial positions in new foundations for the members of the aristocratic kin groups; the latter is characteristic of Columbanus’s relations with the Frankish Church, as he utterly refused to accept certain features of the Frankish ritual. The Irishman did not seek peace with the bishops, relying on his connections with Rome and Frankish secular elites to maintain his independence in the matters of faith. This model of action reflected Columbanus’s Irishness being peculiar to the Irish monastic founders rather than to Frankish ones. In the long run, these strategies caused a general shift in the postions of monasticism in Merovingian Gaul: episcopal control over monasteries gradually ceased as they tended to the union with the royal house and incorporation into the aristocratic families.