The holiday as a cultural phenomenon has attracted a large number of researchers over the years. By the 1970s, Leisure Studies stand out as an independent disciplinary area in the UK. This study is still relevant. In 2019, one the most important philosophical and literary journal “LOGOS” published Volume #29, fully devoted to the problem of leisure and idleness. There sociologists and philosophers conduct a dialogue to try out different theoretical approaches for identifying new phenomena within leisure. Scientists also seek a language that properly describes it. 

The general purpose will be attempt to provide a kind of logical reconstruction of Soviet children's festive culture in 1950s. To achieve the aim, the following research tasks are required to be carried out: the study of historiography on the selected problem, an analysis of a dataset of historical sources, the comparison of the official images with individual understanding of the Soviet holiday by children.

The present inquiry based on wide historical materials including newspapers, methodological manuals, movies and cartoons, postcards and photos, diaries and various archive sources in the State Archive of Perm Krai. The research particularly focused on the official discourse. In contrast, the author analyzes personal diaries from project "Prozhito" by European University. Besides, the study shows a large number of visual materials. By the application of the Geertz methodology, the research identifies various meanings of a festive culture in 1950s. Considering them, we are able to elucidate the reasons for the deviation from the “ideal behavior” on holidays.

The research first attempts to examine children's culture in the context of Soviet holidays comprehensively. There are some separated experiences of considering soviet children's holidays, but they do not include different historical sources. It is also the first time of Geertz’s methodology application for reconstruction Soviet culture.

Definitions of Key Terms. The key term of the paper is the C.Geertz's “Thick description”. In the fields of anthropology, a 'thick description' results from a scientific observation of any particular human behavior. However 'thick description' describes its context as well, so that the behavior can be better understood by an outsider. A researcher needs use a large number of sources to restore more meanings. A 'thick description' typically adds a record of subjective explanations, making the data of greater value for studies by other scientists. We also use the term “official discourse’ to compare it with everyday way of explanation the word "holiday" by children.
Literature Review. Our issue can be found in numerous publication. Publications of XIX-XX centuries provide us with ample material for analysis. At the end of the 19th century, Veblen, in his work The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions describes a model of idleness, in which membership of the elite determined access to leisure. Veblen denotes such a social group as "idle class." However, the potential application this theory remained dismissed. In the 20th century, the current research agenda for idleness had changed. The theme of festive culture had been discussing representatives of various humanities. G.Gadamer and J.Huizinga have developed a game concept for the holiday. Researchers of cultural memory M.Halbwachs and P.Nora handled the holiday as a way of forming group memory. In studies of memory, J. Assman divides the world of “everyday” and “festive,” which streamlines human life. R. Bart mentioned the holiday as a myth that reproduces itself through visual and symbolic symbols. Functionalists, however, focus on the social or political functions of the holiday. For example, M. Bakhtin draws attention to the genesis of holidays, which occurs at crucial moments for a particular culture. Phenomenologists suggest reconstructing the meanings of the actions of the participants in the holidays.
The historiography on the theme of "Soviet holiday” is also extremely wide. Scientists developed the characteristics and features of the new, Soviet holiday culture. It contains the following information. According to M.Rolf, the holiday, as a political act, sought to consolidate the key dates of the new state, introduce new symbols into the culture and form a new soviet identity thereby. The Bolsheviks had crossed out old traditions or pushed their innovations. According to E. Barysheva, the Soviet government used the holidays to "form the myth of the solidarity of society". Therefore, March 8 cannot be regarded as a victory of the “feminist movement”: the Bolsheviks were interested in the creation of an international women's day with a practical problem (the involvement of working women and peasants in the revolutionary struggle). Despite the fact that the festive culture was relatively quick assimilation of the population, the state has faced with the following problem. Soviet holidays transferred cultural practices of intellectuals of XIXth-early XXth century on the reality of Russian peasantry. Together, this was reflected in the holding of holidays in the usual forms of cultural practices of the peasantry in 1917-1922. So, Glebkin concludes: in attempts to create new holidays, people reproduce the old experience, filling it with new semantics. It becomes clear that the Soviet holiday, despite its innovations, retains its traditional features: the party’s views became a new faith; they surrounded by new symbols. The main feature of celebrations of the initial period of Soviet power is a smart casual style of their conduct. In such a short period, they did not manage to acquire a rigid regulation. Since the late 1920s, there is strict regulation of activities. For decades, they produce a stable visual range of images and religious items, adjusted reaction to them. S. Jacobson and D. Lasswell made a linguistic analysis of the May Day slogans from 1918 to 1943. They found contingencies, ready-made forms of Soviet slogans. Agitators almost never re-created them. Glebkin notes that the slogans used more abstract elements, there is a gradual transition from the "hits" to the "story". Festive culture takes theorising.

Here are the main problems in the study of the Soviet festive culture. The authors pay great attention to the mechanisms of formation of the Soviet holiday, it describes as a "mass phenomenon". Consequently, the methodological apparatus of research is also narrowing: official discourse is most often in the circle of attention. Recent investigations based on a narrow base of source. Modern authors have practically no sources to understand individual meanings. Unfortunately, the phenomenon of children's holidays in the USSR has not been comprehensively studied.

The methodological basis of the thesis is the synthesis of several basic methods of historical research for a comprehensive study of the research object. The narrative method allows recreating the historical reality of children who lived in the 1950s. Further, the comparative method will make it possible to indicate a change in festive culture during the "Khrushchev Thaw" after Stalin's death. Digital humanities methods used to analyze historical sources. In our research, they presented in the form of content analysis and database creation.
	
The methodology of the thesis is based on the “Thick description” concept. As noted above, the “Thick description” is an anthropology methods which introduced by Clifford Geertz. It allows researchers to restore the meanings embedded in individual and collective behavior. The research also uses the methodology of researchers specializing on the studying Soviet everyday life: N. N. Kozlova. “The Horizons of the Soviet Age Everyday (Voices from the Choir)”, N. Lebedeva’s “Sausage train passengers” books.

Results. The final part of the proposal will report on the results that are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. It might be expected that our study contain information about several aspects of children's festival culture in Soviet Union. The baseline results of my investigation illustrate a change in festive culture during the "Khrushchev Thaw". In addition, another result of the work will be the inclusion of several completely new archival documents stored in the Perm State Archive into the “scientific circulation”. For example, there has not yet been any studies on the “Journal of accounting of public events of the House of Pioneers”.