The Memory Studies in the post-Soviet space plays an important role in modern science. In the scientific case, investigators can identify through a culture of memory the various constructs, introduced as “right to remember” events. The study reveals a group of meanings, typical for the late soviet period, which can be used for further processing in the context of similar narratives. Also, there is a social demand on the scientific interpretation of the past because the Late Soviet Era is the subject of mass nostalgia and its memory influenced by active construction process.
     
Problem Statement. The aforesaid considerations raise a general research problem, which is as follows: what are the principles for contemporaries to remember everyday life in the past, when they were the participants of the events? After this crucial question is imposed, it can be further accentuated by the issues of different types of “prisms” what have a specific features of interpretation of the past reality. A study of these issues in regard to the memory about the Soviet consumption will contribute to elaborating the problem of the local geographical memory studies. With that being said, the purpose of this research is to reveal different ways to construct collective memory about one of the parts of everyday life in Perm of the 80-ths.
     
Professional Significance. The practical result will be a confirmation of the statement, that memory about everyday life in Perm of the 80-ths is constructed through two main prisms: self-identification as a “Soviet person” and attitude to the deficit.
     
Delimitations of the study. The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is constrained to the period of the 80-ths. According to the requirement imposed by the methodology of qualitative interviews, the study will concentrate mainly on contemporaries who lived in Perm in the period of the 80-ths. From now on we assume that the paper covers a local historical case.
     
Definitions of key terms. The key term of the research is generation memory as a form of the collective remembrance: this specific for every generation standard narrative about the past is not the individual construct. It occurs in the retrospective discourse, which not only collects and aggregates individual experiences, but also largely formed under the influence of texts, images, movies (Assman, 2014, p. 129).
Literature Review
     
As it was said above, the research proposes a local historical case of the collective remembrance about everyday life of Perm's citizens in the last 10 years of the Soviet Union. In the chosen region, there are no studies of memory about everyday life. For this reason, the source basis of this work is the general Aleida Assmann’s theory of memory, outlined in “the Long shadow of the past: Memorial culture and the politics of history” (2014), and the theory of Assmann J. (2004) and Halbwachs (2007). Methodologically, the research is conducted within the framework of Memory Studies.
     
These theories reveal the mechanisms of collective memory. It has a high importance, because the memory of the past reality may differ significantly from the events of a past reality. The features of construction can be seen on the example of local groups united by place of residence, belonging to the same generation, social status etc. As these authors, we believe that the memory of everyday life is constructed.
     
The importance is that a usage of interviews as the sources for the research has its own peculiarity. A group identity in the perception of respondents may differ from the framework assumed by the researcher. So, the group identity, through the memory about the past, can unite several generations, which are characterized by the experience of the same events of the past. In our study, we are working with the memory of participants in the events of the past, who identify theirselves with “the decent Soviet families.”
     
The Past reality is refracted in the memory of individuals in accordance with their individual biographical experience, as well as various rules for constructing narratives about the past. These rules in the concept Assmann A. can be defined by texts and visual sources such as pictures and movies (2014, p. 129).The starting hypothesis of the study was the assumption that a cinematic reality determined frameworks of the collective memory, in the definition made by Assmann A. (2014, p. 38).
     
Secondly, the study is focused on the memory about everyday life, for this reason we additionally used the concept of everyday life for development of the issue of this paper.
     
The paper relies on the definition of everyday life given by Leibovich O. (2009). Leibovich considers that everyday life includes not only the material side of life, but also its associated cultural patterns. The author also emphasizes that the late Stalin era was characterized by the mythologization of everyday life, when people simultaneously took a position in the social stratification and also through the ideological point of view, was an equal among the rest of society. In this study, we came to a similar conclusion about the past of the Late Soviet Era: there is a phenomenon of the past multistories in the memory of contemporaries. This phenomenon is presented in the interviews by mutually exclusive theses, that “all lived equally” in the USSR and that in Perm of the 80-ths was a certain stratification of society, and that the supply in Perm was worse compared to other cities. These theses let us to consider the phenomena of “multiple past” in memories of Russian contemporaries.
     
The second point is the concept of the blurring of “sovietness” suggested by Yurchak A. (2014). This concept adapts the theory of everyday life to the Late Soviet Era: when the crisis of the Soviet system occurred, cultural patterns had undergone a deformation. Author proposes a new approach to the definition of “sovietness”, when practices of the authoritative discourse were filled with new unusual content. In fact, in this paper we are interested in the processes of changes in the cultural patterns, which can be detected through the analysis of the interviews. In the framework of Memory studies we deduce that the respondents in the sample have a large spread of biographical experience, age and social status, but this did not prevent them to identify themselves with the "decent Soviet family" using the same rules of constructing narratives about the past. Their perception of “sovietness” relate to the Late Soviet Era, because it is far away from the classical definition.
     
In addition, in order to systematize the key concepts, that are central to the narratives of everyday life, were used monographs of such authors as Boym S. (2002), Lebina N. (2005), Utekhin I. (2004). The practices of life associated with housing and furniture in the Late Soviet Era were described in these works.
     
For the analysis of cinematic reality we used the study about the images of everyday life in the Soviet art. Dobrenko E. raised the subject of specific ideological components in the Soviet art (2007). His research is dedicated to the thirties and fifties of the 20th century, but for our study are the actual suggested principles of the author's analysis of cinematic reality. Dobrenko's approach allows us to analyze the common belief is that shown in the movie were true – “Everything was exactly in this way” - when reality is replaced by representations. In each individual case are taken from the interviews, there is a practice of bringing together three realities: There is a historical past. There is a representation of this past in the films. And there is a canon for the narratives about the historical past, which was demonstrated in the interviews. Respondents widely demonstrated how inappropriate representations of the everyday life of their past could be reflected by the narratives, regardless of the consciousness of the speaker. Dobrenko introduces the term “optics”, which means the imposed way for citizens of USSR to interpret the reality, used by the authorities in the Stalinist era (2007, p. 279). “Optics” was not the common "point of view", because the correct way of perceiving life instilled rigidly and authoritative through the various policy instruments, including movies. By the end of the Soviet era it occurs by inertia and in accordance with the concept of blurring of “sovietness”. In this paper, we explore the possibility of the influence of films on the vision of reality in a certain way.
Methods
     
In this research we used the following methods to create the source base: Sources of the Memory studies are the data obtained through the interviews (Kvale, 2003; Zhuravlev, 1996). We conducted 12 interviews, based on the list of open ended questions: the status of a person in the 80-ths; the practice of acquirement housing; the practice of purchasing of household items; similar practices in cinema; films that reflect the spirit of the Age. The first three sections allowed describing the household side of their own experience of a past reality, and the last two sections allowed finding similar practices in cinematic reality. The interviewees belong to the different age groups, who lived before the collapse of the Soviet Union. As it had mentioned above, the group identity can unite several generations through the memory about the past. Thus, the respondents form a group with a certain system of values, in which they give a similar interpretation of the concepts, which may not be obvious for the modern researchers. Since all the interviewees were Perm's citizens, the study has a narrow regional focus.
Results Anticipated
     
It is important to emphasize that the research based on memory studies don't set goals to reconstruct a past reality. The main result of such kind research is the reconstruction of ways of remembering and the analysis of collective memory’s specific features.
     
The specific of the memory of a person belonging to a "decent Soviet families" of Perm in the 80-ths: if a person lived better than the average for the city, he lowers his level to the socially acceptable for staying in the discourse of the "Soviet man". When the family of the person experienced difficulties in ensuring the person prefers to believe that the majority lived in the same way, replacing the images of luxurious apartments from the cinematic reality on their own memories about what is "normal" and how "the Soviet people" lived. This allowed to people not to see a very substantial gap between representations of a past reality and the reality of the past. This is particularly true for Perm due to the low standard of living at all levels of social stratification in comparison with other cities and cinematic reality especially. 
     
In the analysis of key categories from the "dictionary of Soviet memory," in accordance with which narratives about the past created, there are three major statements about the life of the Late Soviet Era, which formed through a special combination of settings of social “optics”:
     
The first statement is associated with a deficit and reproduced as a cliche about the deficit: "There was nothing". The second statement is "All lived equally" - the result of the impact of “optics”, tuned for the reproduction of socialist realism in the USSR. The third is "Everything was exactly in this way" - which allows to the person to remember the inconsistencies of cinematic reality and a past reality irrespective of consciousness of the respondent and without damaging of the self-identity.
Conclusion
     
In conclusion, in this study, a new technique that improves the knowledge about the collective memory of the past of the Late Soviet Era is suggested. In the first chapter we get the decryption of the key concepts that are central to the narratives of everyday life in Perm of the 80-ths. Also we conclude that the narratives about the total deficit commonly created by groups of citizens, which had been less affected by total shortage than the lowest stratum of society. In the second chapter we found out the mythologization of the memories about the historical past of the Late Soviet Era. The memories about cinematic reality were constructed by remembering an action of the film in the conditions of the personal experience of the same events of the past. So we can summarize that self-identity was constructed through the combination of “optics” provided by authoritative discourse in the past and the prism of remembrance about all events and its interpretations after the collapse of the Soviet Union. In the last chapter we will demonstrate the discrepancy between the ideal triad of Soviet consumption and its specific interpretations for the memories of citizens of provincial town. The research is expected to result in confirming the statement, that memory of the respondents is constructed in two ways: self-identification as a “Soviet person” and an attitude to the deficit.