The USSR always had their own view in regard to the policy, it also connected with the sexual behavior and sexual education.  
During the last quarter of the twenty century, the government policy are changed and the era of Glasnost are set. Since the collapse of  the policy of prohibition,  Russian public sphere has been undergoing multiple transformation concomitant with rapid, link with sexual  changes. 

Thus, the significant problem is that, one the one hand, there is a traditions, which were accepted by society, such tradition was closeness and sex life. On the other hand, there is a new policy, which permit to use the sexual language and social problems linking with sexual aspects. These contradictions  rise to conflict in society and lack of understanding on the part of adolescents strategies proper behavior. 
  
The purpose of this study is to show specific of the sexual education of teenagers in the period of  Perestroyka. 
  
It is essential to achieve the following objective in order to answer the purpose: to show the sources, which had contributed to the dissemination and assimilation of sexual practices among adolescents and youth. The work is based on media analysis for the period 1985-1991 years. 
  
Professional Significance.  This investigation  is an important issue for the understanding the second sexual revolution in USSR, which, according to the same researches, had a place in the last quarter of  the twenty century. 
  
In the last few years there has been a growing interest in this sphere, because the problems, which appeared in the beginning of 1980-s years, is valid today. However, very few publications can be found  in the literature that discuss the aspect of sexuality, especially concerning the sexual education of teenagers.
  
The paper presents a new approach to the sexual education of teenagers, which is based on analysis of previous experience.
  
Delimitations of the Study.  This research is based on the chronological periodization Finnish researcher A.Rotkirh, which highlights three generations: the older generation, the middle generation, the younger generation. Also, the topics under study is following: the first is the concepts of sex, which were published in the journals and understanding the manners of these one. The second, the manuals for course of sex education and last one is television. 
  
Definitions of Key Terms. For these research is very important to understand the one current term. The determination of “sexuality” permits to deeply understanding the value of the investigation and find its place among numbers of another investigations. 
  
However, the term “sexuality” is not uniform. So, it is very difficult to give a complete definition. In this research the term “sexuality” is used according to Kon, who understand it as “an element of culture, but culture involves raising education and training”.
  
The analysis of previous researches of this topic was divided on three groups. The first is basic investigations, which are focused on the demonstration of “sexuality” and demonstration of its characteristics. 
  
One of the first researchers of  concept “sexuality”, who offered interpretation of this phenomenon, was K. Jung. He believed that the society has controlled over the individual and his development, and helped to determine the means of cultural norms and who individual is it, only "man" or "woman . Idias of K. Jung had his followers, one of which is Z. Freud.
  
The concept of  Z. Freud develop the aspect of “sexuality”. Z. Freud in his work "The Sexual Aberrations" analyzes differences between the sexual aim and the sexual object, moreover, they notes that the abnormalities may arise in connection with both. Also, it is significant that the sexual object is defined “as a desired object, and the sexual aim as what acts are desired with said object”(Freud, 1905) . However, this theory of  Freud is based on psychology, because of it can not be applied in this research, but it was considered as main basis of following works.
  
Belong to this group is work of Michele Foukault “History of sexuality”. This investigation consists of three volumes was first published in 1976. Foucault demonstrates  the "repressive hypothesis", which realize the idea of “sexuality” in European’s society from the 17th to 20th century. During his study Foucault argues the concept of  “sexuality” was proliferated  in the whole, when experts began to examine sexuality in a scientific manner, encouraging people to confess their sexual feelings and actions. From the 18th  to 19th centuries, he shows, power used the different mechanisms for manipulation of society. So, it takes an increasing interest in sexualities that did not deal with the marital bond and is described with medical, legal and other laws, which confined this sphere. Consequently, the 19th century, he confirms, “sexuality” was being easy to learn through repentance and scientific enquiry.
  
Another work by Anthony Giddens deal with the concept of “sexuality”. This research is named  “The Transformation of Intimacy. Sexuality, Love, and Eroticism in Modern Societies”. According to the author’s opinion, sexuality is  creation of modernity, a terrain which reflects the contradictory characteristics of modern social life. The author analyzes the emergence of “plastic sexuality” i.e sexuality liberated from its internal relation to reproduction in conditions of the emotional emancipation implicit in the pure relationship, as well as to the demands of women for sexual pleasure (Giddens, 1992)
  
The second group of studies considers the problem of “sexuality” in the USSR and Russia. So, their experience allows to see change in the governmental policy at the local level and its connection with private life of individuals.  
  
There are two significant researchers of this question, the Finnish advocate Anna Rotkirch and Russian Igor Kon. Both reseachers have proposed various methods to analyze “sexuality”, however,  their outcomes are the same.
  
Anna Rotkirch shows that the ban on public discourse of sexuality is related to the quality of people's lives, their daily sexual behavior and morality suffered from Soviet censorship on sexuality. Researcher builds its study on the basis of ordinary people’s autobiographies from St. Petersburg, she identifies three types, using chronological frameworks, which relate to each other as a complete prohibiting the development of the theme, a prohibiting the public display and a policy of openness.
  
In numerous works Igor Kon uses a different approach, he interpret cultural features of  Russian sexuality and discuss the questions of two Sexual Revolutions in Russia, which directly link with sexual education. So, the view under study is set out in the following works: “Strawberry on birch. Sexual culture in Russia”, “Psychology of early adolescence”,  “Adolescent Sexuality at the threshold of the XXI century”, “Man's body in the history of culture”, “Sexology”. 
  
The last one is written by a group of scholars, who analyze the representation or references of sex in Mass media. The investigations has common features, they are published  in scientific journals and reflected the different aspects of  “sexuality”.
  
So, “Sex reference in Mass media” by Joseph Scott and Jack Franklin investigates the mass media's coverage of sexual topics from 1950 to 1970. Examination used the method of the quantitative research and made the analyze the amount of references to sex, their percentage and the coverage of specific sexual activities. Also, the researchers take into consideration possible effects of the activities of special interest groups in altering the mass media's coverage.
  
Another research allows to refer to the fact that adolescents actively assimilate information received from the media. This study was made  by Enid Gruber and Helaine Thau  and is named “Sexually related content on television and adolescents of color: Media theory, physiological development, and psychological impact”. The review examines different impact of sexual content on television media on teenagers. This study  used theory of content analysis, physiological development, and psychological impact. 
  
The same point of view is presented in the study by Jane Brown “Mass media influences on sexuality”. The researcher proves that people still know little about effects of sexual content on sexual beliefs and behaviors and these impacts occur because media try to keep the prohibition to show  sexual behavior on public and personal agendas, media images reinforce a relatively consistent set of sexual and relationship norms.
  
As an additional work to assess the heritage of the era of Glasnost there are two works that deal with the problem of sexuality-related literature. There are the study of Konstantin Kustanovich “Erotic Glasnost: Sexuality in recent Russian literature” and the investigation of Maryna Romanets “Out of the Soviet closet: Yurko Pokalchuk's "Erotomaniac" fictions”. Both researchers discuss the reaction in the literature on the break-up of the Soviet policy and change of sexual topics and how different kind of fiction or non-fiction reflect sexuality through the erotic desire and transgression, the transgression of conventional discursive norms and regimes, and the subversion of social values, all of which are working against various social and cultural fixities. 
  
So, for several years a great effort has been made to the study of sexual aspects, but the complex of literature does not allow to perceive the sexual education as phenomenon under investigation, because many researchers consider this topic perfunctorily or did not attention to this question at all. 
  
However, the work of researches are given above, allows to assess the problem of sexual education and to see the further direction in which should develop the investigations. It is what I’m going to do in my study.
Methods
   
The main methods of my research will be the method of critical analysis of the source, method is based on the research of Anna Rotkirch, method of interpretation, and the expert interview. I will interpret the data received from the Soviet journals, manuals of the school’s course of sexual educations in three aspects: informative and instructive and in terms of the audience at which they are aimed. These methods allow to fully show different aspects of public policy of sexuality to regard with teenagers. Also, the method of the expert interview will contribute to the presentation of sexual education in comparative view as it was in the public sphere and private life. 
  
In order to verify the validity of methods of  the expert interview, I will use the expert interview to avoid misinterpretations. 
  
After conducting the research, I expect to get certain outcomes. I hope to reveal and describe discrepancies between public representation of sex in journals and interviews. And I will have results from sources of mass media in three aspects: informative and instructive and in terms of the audience at which they are aimed. 
  
I suppose that the more informative on sex will be the articles in journals, the second place will take manuals and next will be television. Moreover, the articles will have their own scale of the instructive and will be aimed on the different groups, some of them at parents and teachers, some at the adolescence. 
  
Also, manuals will have an emphasis on the moral dimension of sexuality. I suppose that real differences of practices and definitions in the papers should be minimal, because it was the major source of information, during the period of Perestroyka. 
  
Perhaps, in the beginning of 1990-s the role of television developed and the topic of sexuality represented in the cinema and visual sources, that significantly influence on the everyday practice of teenagers. 
Conclusion
  
So, during the research was received significant outcomes.  According to the purpose, the analyze of the sources was made and the sources were divided into three groups. The first one is articles, which present the idea of sexual education  in school and family and have solved the problem of  lack of education  with the introduction of the course in the school and the learning of parents. The second group is sources, which reflect the problem of adolescence and use this way in order to show another way of development this questions. And last group, which use the previous topics for understanding contemporary problems and defend censorship of “sexuality”. 
  
In conclusion, there was reorientation moral values of human sexual behavior in general, occurring at that time in social development, which hurt mostly teens and was recognized magazines. However, this change had not development after the period of  “Perestroyka”, and the Second Sexual Revolution in Russia has not reached the final point.