The background of Soviet education often falls into the field of professional interests of scientists. Even though school education and its study are traditionally the most popular subjects of this topic, there are many other problems in this area. No less important in this case is the study of professional education.
    
In most cases, school education is considered in the discourse of the ideological formation of the Soviet citizen. Thus, researchers who study ideology lose sight of the school's core orientation. In the case of professional education, this orientation allows us to highlight the interweaving of social interaction between factories and educational institutions.

It is worth noting that the period under study contains only a decade of a large period related to the Soviet regime. This is mainly due to the peculiarity of the transformation of Soviet education. Because of the main sources of research are archival documents from the Perm archives, the work will cover only the Kama picture of Soviet education. However, it is worth noting that the features of professional education in the Kama region can be correlated with the entire USSR.  Thus, the following sources will be used in the study:

Archival sources of the Perm archive of socio-political history: 

Minutes of party meetings of 5-7 professional education organizations; 
Archival sources of the state archive of the Perm region: 
Salary lists of two factories – Dzerzhinsky and Motovilikhinsky; 
Demographic statistics for two plants – Dzerzhinsky and Motovilikhinsky; 

Given the nature of the selected sources, it is necessary to note the features of archival sources in General.

First, when analyzing an archived document, it is important to understand the political discourse, or, in other words, the language used by the source.

Secondly, it is very important to consider the structure of the document, the model for submitting information and structuring it. 
Third, it is necessary to consider the specifics of the use of these sources – using archival sources, we do not aim to understand any personal motives, thoughts or experiences. Our goal is to identify patterns: the use of political language by members of the Institute, positioning their position in the General hierarchy, and interaction between individuals within the framework of social interaction. 
Finally, it is important to note that the sources also contain statistical data that must be correctly analyzed and interpreted.

The object of the study is the Soviet education of the 40-50s in the Kama region.

The subject of the work was the idea of the image of the Soviet worker in the professional and industrial environment.

The main goal of the work is to study the ideas about the cultural images of Soviet workers in the context of vocational training and work distribution. 

Among the Professional Significance we can mention:
1) to study the formation of professional education in the USSR;
2) to identify the features of training in the environment of professional educational institutions;
3) to describe the interaction of professional institutes and factories in Perm;
4) to highlight cultural norms and expectations for graduates of professional institutions.
    
Immersion in the discourse of Soviet professional education can begin in the 1930s. One of the significant events that served to spread the Federal law (factory apprenticeship) was collectivization and industrialization. An important feature of the form of education, which helped to educate staff for factories, was the forced decrease in the level of General education, by excluding General education subjects. According to Moisenko V. V. and Baldin S. S., this form of education did not suit young people, because of the narrow focus of this education. The Federal penitentiary service has solved the General problem of filling in critically missing personnel. However, it did not allow creating a personnel reserve for the subsequent expansion of enterprises. As well as other scientists who studied the context of the presented topic in the far East, Chernysheva N. V.  separately highlights the stage of Labor reserves. The decree of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR dated October 2, 1940, prescribed the creation of new types of schools-factory education (SFE). Initially, they were only related to the railway and craft sector. However, during the war, their task acquired a broader interpretation – they were required to train personnel for an emergency increase in production rates to support the front. During this period, the rules of training were especially toughened-penalties for absenteeism, violations of the regime, etc. The Epilogue of this period was the speech of Stalin on June 25, 1945. The reference to this event is given by L. V. Zakharovsky. He also touched on the topic of political discourse in the context of professional education. He speaks about an important topic for us to form the image of a "collective winner". Here we can see the formation of traditional values and images through indigenous social institutions – "school, University, enterprise". 
    
Finally, we can say about the subsequent fate of professional education in the USSR. Thus, Dimova T. N. notes that in contrast to the earlier period, the professional education of "thaw" is characterized by a more thorough approach to the theoretical basis of both the profile subject and the General education cycle.

Chronological framework:

Early 40s-early 50s of the XX century. This periodization was selected from a set of significant events that show the uniqueness of this period and the place of professional education in it. Among them: the creation of the Federal law, which replaced the Federal law, the spread of vocational education and increasing the need for it in the USSR. 

The most important event of this periodization is the Second World war. This event does not claim to be the main thing in this work, but thanks to it, the features of logistics, and therefore the role of factories in this process, become more "contrasting", easily perceptible to the researcher. Thus, the characteristic features of the" life cycle " of training and education of an industrial worker are particularly clear, so through the study of professional education, you can get an idea of the role of the Federal law in military mobilization.

In this case, we find it interesting to see changes in the demographic composition of students from the Federal district and factory workers who received their education there.
Also, it is worth noting that this period begins not only the history of the institutions of professional education but also the bureaucratic side of these institutions, which makes it possible to find the necessary materials for the reconstruction of the features of the Federal law.

Returning to the political discourse of the period of the 40s and 50s, we should also note the methodologies used. The list of authors should include Anderson B.  with his work on imaginary communities, the experience of studying which will be needed in the study of the social Institute of educational institutions. The meaning of the theory of imaginary communities is to understand the existence of such institutions, which are constructed by the participants of a social group themselves using representing the mental image of the ideal participant in such a group. Thus, the formation of such "imaginary communities" occurs individually. Thus, the construction of oneself within this society takes place in comparison with the mental image, from the position of the other.

Also, Berger P. and Lukman T. with the social construction of reality within the community. For our research, it becomes important to study the reality and its institutionalization. The theory is based on the idea that social reality, which is constructed by an institution, can affect an individual, a member of a social group in different ways.

Overall, when studying professional education in the USSR, we need to see the features and process of formation of this institution, in all its variations. It is necessary to note the role of these institutions in the Second World war. It is necessary to show the relationship between educational institutions and factories. It is also worth highlighting the main patterns of interaction within social groups within these institutions and collectives. As a result, we will be able to highlight the portrait and image of the Soviet man, from different angles.

The study of professional education in the USSR is an interesting topic in the context of both the formation of the image of the Soviet person and the creation of Soviet institutions in General. A study of interactions between educational and industrial institutions, using the example of conflicts arising within and between institutions, can show a dualistic representation of discourse in Soviet society. Thus, the study of such a vast field as education, which concerns many aspects of life, can reveal the features of the Soviet everyday life of the 40-50s.