The advent of the holidays is directly related to the need of people to change their usual way of life, burdened with the burden of labor. From the point of view of J. Assman, a holiday can act as one of the levers of organizing time, introducing a reference point for the main events of the past, present and future. During the existence of the holiday, another appears, distinguishing from the everyday form of festive culture. The holiday has a meaningful content, which includes «other, not ordinary activity», turning it off from real space, filling the new space with joy, laughter. All these meanings make it possible to identify holiday and everyday life, a holiday during emergency situations in the country or in the life of the people. In periods of disasters, catastrophes, the meanings of holiday dates, events may be lost or replaced by others not familiar to the people.

How did the war affect the holiday in general and its economic component of the holiday in particular? 
The aim of the research is to reconstruct the Soviet holiday culture and its relationship with the features of everyday life during the war years (1941-1945) on the territory of big industrial city such as Molotov. 

In contemporary with the research aim the objectives are the following:
1. Consider the theoretical concepts of the holiday;
2. Describe the process of formation of the Soviet holiday culture;
3. To study changes in the daily life of the population of Molotov during the Second World War.
4. To analyze the impact of the Great Patriotic War on the formation of the Soviet holiday culture;
5. To identify the basic norms and characteristics of the festive culture during the war years;
6. To reconstruct the festive culture of the city of Molotov in the period from 1941 - 1945.
7. Describe the features of economic practices in the field of festive culture.

The territorial scope of the study is the Molotov region in 1941 – 1945. Molotov during the years of World War II was one of the largest rear industrial centers of Russia. As a result, studying its festive everyday life feature, we can assume its typicality for other rear cities of Russia. 

The chronological framework of the study is the period of the Great Patriotic War, 1941 – 1945. In wartime, the mentality of the people and all concepts of public consciousness are manifested, that why the holiday with its integrative function allows people to strengthen interpersonal contacts not only with those who  are in close proximity, but also with those who went to the front. 

Holidays are studied interdisciplinary by historians, sociologists, scholars and especially ethnographers. Only few researchers turn their attention to the peculiarities of the festive culture during the war year in the USSA. 

The theoretical basis of the research is formed by several concepts: holiday, daily routine and the Great Patriotic War. The first concept is holiday – there are a lot of work Russian and foreign studies about definition of holiday, such as K. Zhigulsky, M. Bakhtin, A. Mazaev and others. In the presented study, the approach to understanding the holiday described by the Polish sociologist K. Zhigulsky will be considered and used. He argued: «The holiday is semantically connected with free time, time of idleness, relaxation and joy, fun, with a certain ritual, dance, welcome, triumph. It is associated with important dates in the history of the people and the state, with the traditions of social movements, with their aspirations, slogans, celebrations and demonstrations on certain days» (К.Жигульский, 1985, p. 336). 

The second concept – daily routine or everyday life. The concept of everyday life is described in the work of A. Schütz. 
The third concept is the Great Patriotic War - the period from 1941 to 1945, characterized by the struggle between the USSR and Nazi Germany and the European allies.

Researchers of the Great Patriotic War pay close attention to the military-technological and agricultural potential of countries, their influence on the outcome of the events of the war years. Only at the end of the 20th century, attention was drawn to the everyday needs and requirements of Soviet citizens, their leisure and everyday practices during the war years. History attracts traditions and their interaction. 

A considerable amount of valuable work on has been done to provide a solid grounding for theoretical basis the research into holiday as concept. There are no English-language sources or monographs on the stated problem; in English, there are only academic texts on the methodology issue can be found.

To understand the classification of the holiday, one should turn to the work of K. Zhigulsky, «Holiday and Culture. Holidays old and new. The thoughts of a sociologist». In his work,  identifies several types holidays: the first is based on periodicity, the second on constancy, the third is related to the territory of distribution, the following types talk about the social origin of the holiday, its place in the social space. K. Zhigulsky also describes the functions of holidays. The author pays special attention to a new type of holidays - secular, for example, the First of May, describes cultural and historical traditions, emphasizes the importance of the holiday in the conditions of the 20th century. K. Zhigulsky writes that «a holiday is a mirror of his era» (К.Жигульский, 1985, p. 5), by a holiday one can judge not only the political history, but also the spiritual life of the country, determine the goals, ideas and interests of the government and various social sectors of society. Therefore, the study of the holiday in the interpretation of K. Zhigulsky provides an opportunity to decipher the meanings of the holiday and the ways of interaction between society and the state.
Another researcher on the history of festive culture and the formation of holidays is M. Rolf «Soviet Mass Festivals, 1917 – 1991». In his work, the author describes the history of the creation and functioning of Soviet holidays in the period 1918 - 1941. The author of the book defines the concept of «holiday», comparing it with the «ritual», introduces the characteristic attributes of a mass Soviet holiday. Rolf dwells in more detail on the description of May Day as the first official Bolshevik mass holiday.

On the territory of the Urals, the researcher who wrote the thesis «Festive Culture of the Southern Urals 1918 – 1941» - Mordasova Maria Aleksandrovna. She addresses the formation of a festive culture in the new Soviet state studies the impact of power structures on the formation of holidays and the consciousness of citizens of the state. A characteristic feature of the work is the appeal to the regional features of the holding and preservation of holidays during the war years.

As part of the study, the articles of S. N. Shapovalov were analyzed. «The Role and Significance of Public Holidays during the Great Patriotic War» and «Holiday and War - Experience in Holding Holidays in 1941-1942». The author writes that the holiday is one of the important components of the victory over the enemy, ideological elements in governing the country. Moreover, the holiday brought people an important psychological aspect - joy in a series of workdays, it was one of the incentives for which people fought at the front and in the rear.

The issues of socialist holidays, holidays of the post-war years or late Stalinism on the territory in the city of Molotov and in Sverdlovsk are described in the works and articles of A.A. Shishkin and N.V. Surzhikova. 
Foreign studies include the work of James von Geldern, Sartorti R, the authors describe the mythological process of filling and the formation of the Soviet holiday culture since 1917. 

Moreover, a description of the policy pursued by the Bolsheviks in the Soviet period, the context of the era can be traced in the works of Peter Kenez, Karen Petrone and Sheila Fitzpatrick. The authors believe that propaganda and methods of mass mobilization were an important element in maintaining the holiday. 

A description of the history of the formation and adaptation to military operations of individual holidays can be considered in the works of Amir Weiner and Choi Chatterjee. They are of value in solving one of the tasks of the diploma - a description of the formation of a festive culture.

The methodological basis of the research is the synthesis of several basic methods of historical research for a comprehensive study of the research object. The study based on the basic principles of historical science – historicism and objectivity. This allows you to choose the right conceptual and terminological apparatus and to avoid dry estimates and judgments. The principle of historicism allows to explore the past festive culture in the framework of the worldview of Soviet people in wartime. The study also used a systematic approach allowing to study and d analyzing the forms of holiday culture based on many different sources. Reveal the meaning of the holiday in the conditions of Soviet ideology. The chronological method underlying the arrangement of historical events in their temporal sequence. 

All these methods allow you to study the festive culture through the prism of everyday life described in the work of the founder of the phenomenological school A. Schütz: «Everyday life is the main reality, according to which a person organizes his experience and the experience of the social world» (Шюц, 1994, p.140), a person shares his world with the world of other people, which is understandable to everyone. As part of this approach, O. Leibovich in his work «A House on Three Floors» claims that “everyday life is multidimensional; it contains the whole human world - from the most intimate zones shared with loved ones to public events» (О.Лейбович, 2009, p. 250 – 274). Thus, he identifies 4 main components in everyday life: firstly, social practices - everyday or holiday, political or labor; secondly, the instruments by which practices are performed; thirdly, the space that is mastered by the individual in the course of practice; fourthly, the semantic content of practices, which allows us to distinguish between what is good and what is bad. As part of the study, it is planned, based on the presented methodology, to investigate, based on written sources, one of the components of everyday life - holiday social practices, where the holiday is perceived as a result of the interaction of a person, society and government.

The research is expected to result in providing the answer to several questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the main features of the Soviet holiday will be determined according to its representation in diaries and as well as in newspapers and soviet party documents; then the economic structures of the soviet holiday will be established from these documents; after that, the study will demonstrate two strategies of interaction of people with the holiday and the authorities with holiday. The study will allow the reconstruction of Soviet holidays during the Great Patriotic War.

Acquaintance with the historical realities of Soviet festivity made it possible to feel the lively atmosphere of mass popular optimism that had developed over the years of the war. The information obtained during the study can form the basis of the historical panorama of the regional holidays of the war period. 

However, it should be mentioned that the implications presented in the study do not aspire to be incontestable and will be open to further academic debates. 

As a result, the thesis is supposed to achieve all the goals and objectives stated in the beginning. Consequently, based on the analysis of personal files, periodicals and paperwork for 1941-1945, the Soviet holiday culture will be reconstructed, its main meanings and functions for the Soviet bastard and the state will be revealed. A comprehensive analysis of the economic life of the holiday and its value in cash equivalent is made. Mechanisms of establishing connections between the man and power are explored the archival data with the help of interpretative approach, which is adjusted for the work in a timeframe. The image of holiday culture in the Soviet Union in the period of 1941 – 1945 can be described as an important ritual aspect of the daily life of a resident of a large rear provincial city. This model of soviet public holidays during the war reflected boundaries of everyday life peculiar to wartime. 

Thus, the results of the research prove the suggestion hypothesis that soviet holidays were not only an important element of the administrative management of the state but also a form of personal triumph. Often, holiday practice was not different from everyday boundaries, they merged. 

The study gives a new view of the problem holiday culture and the definition of the joints between every day and not everyday life.