What international journalism is like today? This question may have a great number of contradictory answers. Inclusion of politics into our life gives numerous news hooks to mass media representatives.
	
There are many points of view about perspectives of international journalism in Russia. On the one hand, some researchers think that international journalism is on the edge of disappearing. For example, a political radio and television correspondent Valentin Zorin assumes that so-called ‘universal’ journalists are in great demand. Such specialists are able to write articles on the most different topics like international problems, agriculture, sports, etc.
	
It’s evident that this kind of journalism is in a grip of crisis. This is confirmed by the fact that similar disputes are also relevant for foreign media centers.
	
On the other hand, in the ‘Kommersant’ newspaper it is stated that international journalism is about to recover.
	
Pyotr Fyodorov, director of international relations of All-Russian State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company (ARSTRBC), notes that ‘we are facing slow but gradual realization of the need to protect national interests of our country. It’s complicated because the notion of a national interest and a national idea of Russia is not clear.’
	
In our opinion, the issue of transformation of Russian international television journalism doesn’t get enough attention. Thus, this topic is not well-studied, which confirms the relevance of our work.

Such terms as ‘international journalism’ and ‘an international journalist’ are in danger of falling into disuse. However, evidence suggests that the phenomenon of Russian international television journalism still exists, but in a modified form.
	
The objective of our work is to identify the causes of transformation of international television journalism in Russia.

In order to achieve the set objective, we need to work on the following research tasks:
1. To define the framework of categories and concepts, as well as special aspects and particular details of international television journalism.
2. To define main features of international television journalism for the period of 1970-1993 by the analysis of typological features of famous soviet international journalists.
3. To analyze the post-Soviet period of international television journalism development from 1994 until the present day.
	
The object of our study is Russian international television journalism, the subject matter are typical features of international journalists.

We used the following resources in our study: texts of different journalists, interviews, videos with them.

In order to achieve the set objectives, we used materials about Russian international television journalism, related to the Soviet period, changes during the post-Soviet period, as well as transformation of the genre of domestic international television journalism.

In our work we pursue a historical and theoretical method in the interpretation of a famous scientist and researcher of journalism A. Kornilov. The essence of the method is accumulation of facts, their descriptions, and revealing regularities.

In order to achieve the set research tasks we used the following methods:
- a historical and theoretical method;
- a content analysis.

In frames of the historical and theoretical methodological approach we will accumulate facts and data, their descriptions, and reveal regularities afterwards.

The work consists of the introduction, three chapters, and the conclusion. In the first chapter ‘Domestic international television journalism: a term and its typological features’ we will define the framework of categories and concepts that we will use in this work.

In the second chapter ‘International journalism in the Soviet period’ we will distinguish a set of qualities of a Soviet international journalist. We will find out why these precise features were typical for Soviet international journalists of that period. We will also analyze the conditions under which international journalism was transforming.

In the third chapter ‘International journalism in the post-Soviet space’ we will trace the change of Russian international television journalism. We will also distinguish features of a post-Soviet international journalist and compare them with the ones of a Soviet international journalist.

In the conclusion we will analyze two periods of international journalism and specify the state of Russian international television journalism today.

Chapter 1. Domestic international television journalism:a term and typological features

By journalism we mean the ‘scope of activities aimed at accumulation, processing, and dissemination of information, valuable to the community, through technical means and corresponding communication channels, as well as analysis, assessment of important events and their critical interpretation’. 
	
International journalism is a section of journalism that deals with international aspects of the work of journalists and mass media; international and regional organisations elaborating standards, legal, and ethical norms of accumulation, creation, processing, storage, and dissemination of information through mass communication channels. 
	
It is important to stress the role of international television journalists in formation of people’s opinions on various topics that are not present in their daily life (like economics of other states and quality of goods and services produced there).
	
If we look back to history, there were correspondent bureaus, which was an official form of labour organisation of journalists. It was an organisation of correspondents of a certain media that worked abroad and was aimed at reporting about different events of that country.
	
But in time it became unprofitable to maintain such correspondent bureaus.
	
As a result of a current economic crisis, the number of correspondent bureaus around the world has decreased. Only information agencies and federal television channels have their own bureaus.
	
It is fireman journalism, or working for several countries simultaneously, that is coming to dominate. A raider or fireman journalist is the one who travels around the world to report about different events. At the present time this model is prevailing, because it’s more economically profitable than holding a correspondent bureau.
	
The specific character of work of an international television journalist is determined by an object of its activity, or international information.
	 
International information is not only about an event that happened in a foreign country in a particular time. It is information that caused a political and social stir in the world.
	
Activity of an international television journalist is regulated by law.
	
G. Kuznetsov highlights the following features of television. It is able to cover the broad populations, even the ones that stay beyond influence of other types of mass media.
1) it is able to penetrate into any corner of the world.
2) the screen allows people to perceive information more sensitively, in brighter colours, that’s why they are available for a very wide audience.
3) it is able to broadcast an audiovisual form of an action or event. The simultaneity of an action, event and its picture on the screen is a unique feature of television.

Chapter 2. International television journalism in the Soviet period

In our work we analyzed the period from 1970 to 1991.
	
We chose this period because, first of all, it’s the main stage in Soviet international television journalism development. ‘When I started my work on TV, we had our correspondents in all Eastern-European countries, as well as in other main countries. They even opened their correspondent bureaus in RSA, Australia, and India. – from the interview with Boris Kalyagin.
	
Secondly, it was the time when Soviet international journalists set their own traditions.
	
Gradual development of television enabled us to broadcast moving objects and images with sound background. Later on people started to record sport events, performances, and short movies. A new genre of television journalism began to develop. First television journalists started their work. This is how Soviet television journalism was started.
	
The end of 1960 became a watershed year for Soviet television journalism. At that time the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the USSR adopts a rule ‘about further development of Soviet television’. An enhanced role of television in social life became a prerequisite for this decision. 
	
Since international journalism was a part of the USSR system, it was subject to the same changes. By that time, international branches had already been founded on the radio and in print media. However, as technologies developed, journalists started to work on television as well.
	
We analyzed the conditions of work of Soviet international journalists. Now we can distinguish typical features which unite them:
- Social status. All the candidates grew up in intelligent families. Most of their parents represented educated elite. Candidates for this position were designated from ‘above’ and became a part of a governing establishment (a so-called ‘nomenklatura’). For example, Vsevolod Ovchinnikov was born in a family of an architect in Saint-Petersbourg. His family lived in the uptown of Fontanka. Similarly, Aleksandr Kaverznev was born in an educated family, as well as Juri Zhukov, Boris Kalyagin and Vladimir Tsvetov.
- It’s reasonable that their parents were doing their best to give their children a brilliant education. Quality education is another common feature of all the candidates. Almost all international journalists had a brilliant education and graduated from the Moscow State University of Foreign Affairs (Vasily Zorin, Henrich Borovik, Gennady Gerasimov, Vladimir Dunaev). Boris Kalyagin graduated from the Institute of Asian and African Studies, which also means a good quality of his knowledge about Eastern countries.
- Good foreign language skills, which was an obligatory requirement for that time. Almost every candidate speaks a few foreign languages and knows a lot about one particular country that later becomes their specialization. Farid Seiful-Mulyukov graduated from the Moscow Institute of Oriental Studies. After that he began to work with Eastern and Arab countries. Vladimir Tsvetkov graduated from the Institute of Eastern Languages under the Moscow State University, where he fell in love with Japanese culture and language.
- Very broad-based knowledge. Besides their main work, many of them wrote books.
- Usually, Soviet journalists had a different educational background, which they successfully used in their journalist career. For example, Vsevolod Ovchinnikov was a command officer of the artillery tube. Juri Zhukov was a design engineer in the Gorky car plant. Igor Fesunenko had a degree of a historian and archivist. He had left a position of the Public Records Office archivist before he became a journalist.
- Regional specification. A journalist had to know a foreign language and have deep knowledge about traditions of a certain country and international relations, and have good professional competences.
- Compliance with a prestigious profession. Soviet international television journalists belonged to the elite class. [4, P. 28].
	
This went on for a few decades until the USSR collapse in 1991. International television journalism was changing together with the country.
	
On the basis of this analysis we can conclude that Soviet international journalism is distinguished by the following features:
- activity, related to the coverage of international events and topics like foreign visits, wars, etc.
- at the same time, the news items were more focused on the informative aspect.
- analytics, i.e. journalists accumulated different facts about a particular event and made some conclusions. The bright examples are the programs ‘International panorama’ and ‘Today in the world’.
- propaganda, or promotion of party politics and thus censorship. Boris Kalyagin notes that they were not allowed to shoot shop windows on the streets of England, so as not to show food and product diversity to a Soviet TV viewer. Shops in the USSR were all empty at that time.

Chapter 3. International television journalism in the post-Soviet countries

	
Journalism has significantly changed since the Soviet times. We can highlight a number of factors that influenced this process.
	
The emergence of the Internet and its fast dissemination thanks to social networks resulted in broadening of information space, the emergence of mass media, the birth of Internet journalism and citizen journalism.
	
The beginning of this period in Russia is dated 2006 year, when a social network ‘vkontakte’ was officially launched. It stimulated development of blogging, and international journalism underwent serious changes.
	
New journalists appeared on the stage. A new journalist environment with Soviet echoes was born. Journalists of the 90’s confess that at that time it was very important to deny everything Soviet. For example, Andrei Shilov has been working on TV since 1990, and this is what he remembers: ‘It was very important, that all these things are not Soviet...’ [2, P. 38].
	
It was a special time and with its prevailing conditions. Journalists felt like the ‘fourth Power’: ‘We can say that since 1991 we have been writing whatever we want. We weren’t afraid of anything. We played a role of a new power’. [3, P. 16]. Freedom of speech, no censorship. At that moment international policy merged with the internal one. It happened because new journalists came to work on TV and changed the system completely. It was the first change.
	
Moreover, there were changes in the structure of journalist work. New type of reporters emerged. There was a correspondent who works in Moscow. Another correspondent worked abroad. And the third one went to a certain place inside or outside the country on specific tasks.This kind of structure became more effective.
	
So, one of the reasons that changed journalist environment was an economic factor. Television marketing changed a lot: the emergence of advertising, entertainment programs, series, talk shows [22]. Similar changes occurred in internal journalism as well. The broadcasting time devoted to international topics was reduced. It resulted in less geographical extension of broadcasting. For example, such important TV-channels as Perviy (The first), ARSTRBC, and NTV (National television) embrace mostly Europe, America, and China.
	
Topics are also selected. There is no sense now to show the things that we can watch on the Internet, for example program about traditions and landmarks of a certain country.
	
The next factor is connected with technologies. Due to the emergence of the Internet, all processes speed up. Vyacheslav Dukhin started his work as an ARSTRBC correspondent in 1999. This was the time of a technological shift: ‘I remember we had to send videos to Moscow through the satellite. Internet killed it all. Videos became digital, and the report weighed 200-400 megabytes’ [4, P. 45]. It results in bigger amounts of work that journalists have to do: ‘Any time when there is an event, the news reach news agencies in 10-15 minutes. In 20 minutes we need to put the news on the site’ [4, P. 47].
	
The next factor that influenced post-Soviet journalism is globalization.

If we look inside the country, it transformed from a closed into an open state, which every law-abiding citizen can leave and visit other countries. It enabled mass media to quickly receive information from foreign sources.
	
This factor intersects with the technological one. An opportunity to get information from different sources leads to the universalization of a journalist profession and the emergence of freelance journalists, or stringers. All these factors transform influence international television journalism.
	
So the question is, is international television journalism disappearing? Or is it just a transformation?
	
The bottom line is that international television journalism will not disappear. International journalists will go on with realizing its main objective – to cover international events and get news to TV viewers through communication channels of mass media. The question is, how it’s going to be realized. Nevertheless, international television journalism has considerably changed in comparison with its Soviet ancestor.

It should be noted that mainly representatives of the Soviet school are talking that international journalism is disappearing. Soviet international journalists assume that now there isn’t a single analytical program on the Russian TV [3, P. 29]. It’s connected with current economic factors, because today such program won’t pay off.

Modern international journalists has another educational background. They are first and foremost journalists and generally have a degree in journalism.
	Correspondent tasks are also changing. TV needs only relevant information, that’s why the main task of an international journalist is to make an interesting report as soon as possible. Modern international journalists are not responsible for creating an analysis report. Besides, the scope of topics is quite diverse. From disasters to political routine in the European Union. It’s versatility of a journalist.
	
At this stage we can also distinguish a new type of the international journalist. It’s a ‘universal’ journalist. S/he usually graduated from the journalism faculty. For a modern journalist, journalism is the main occupation.
	
It’s now necessary that a ‘universal’ journalist speaks many foreign languages. There are interpreters who translate all the necessary information on press-conferences.
	
Another feature of an international journalist is mobility. The skill to move fast, find topics, heroes, and create materials [5].
	
The prestige value of the profession is still relevant. A foreign correspondent is regarded as the top of journalist professionalism.
	
A modern international journalist is a free and open person. For example, Irada Zeinalova confesses that her hobbies are reading and collecting clown figures.

We analyzed the development of international journalism in Russia since the Soviet period until the present. The gathered information allowed us to create generalized images of a Soviet and post-Soviet international television journalist.

The generalized Soviet international television journalist is distinguished by the following features:
- a quality education in international relations
- a non-core journalist education
- good foreign language skills
- good skills of processing information
- regional specialization
- age (mostly above the age of 30)
- belonging to the elite class
- long-term stay on correspondent point abroad
- work with different genres, from news making to making films based on feature-stories with elements of area studies.
	
Such set of professional features was connected with the political situation in the country. USSR citizens didn’t have an opportunity to go abroad and get information from the outside. This emptiness was filled with international journalists.
	
To sum up, we can say that we have managed to find generalized features of an international television journalist of the Soviet and post-Soviet periods, and to highlight their similarities and differences.
	
Moreover, we have found out why these features were typical for a particular period , and the reasons of their transformations. Thus, we have realized the set tasks and the goal which was set in our research work.