Recently, soviet everyday life has aroused great interest among many scientists, since it allows us to study the lives of people of another era. Moreover, the study of the housing issue is an important indicator of how urban everyday life was shaped and changed since the arrival of Soviet government.

Studying this area, we can, on the one hand, consider how the housing problem was solved in accordance with the norms and the law, and on the other hand, how soviet people solved their housing problems, their behavior and methods of survival.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: how did the practice of solving the housing problem change over the specified period? After the acute question is formulated the purpose of the research is formulated. The purpose of the research is to reveal everyday practices of solving the housing problem in 1917-1941 using the case of Perm.

In conformity with the research purpose the objectives are the following:
To identify the features of the housing issue in the USSR in 1917-1941.
To establish and analyze normative and actual accommodations in 1917-1941 on the example of Perm.

The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is limited by the period from 1917 to 1941. This period is interesting for considering the housing policy of the USSR in that changes occur in all spheres of life. People have to adapt to a new life. This leads to changes in society and to the formation of a new Soviet man. 

One more limitation is the requirement imposed by the methodology of microhistory, is the territorial framework.  The study will concentrate mainly on ways to solve the housing problem in the city of Perm, with not much attention to other cities of the USSR.
Professional Significance. The problem posed is of great interest for those engaged in studying of the Soviet everyday life. The study would be valuable and interesting, because many questions regarding the housing problem in the USSR have not yet been sufficiently studied. The scientific novelty of this study is that researchers mainly consider large, capital cities, while the topic of housing in provincial cities is poorly understood.
 
Therefore, consideration of this topic on the case of Perm allows us to identify common and special features of the accommodations in central cities and provinces. This, in turn, more fully reveals the problem under consideration, showing the diversity of the everyday life of Soviet society.

According to O. Leibovich everyday life is a historical phenomenon, therefore, it is possible to study it only in the context of the era. It will be wrong to consider everyday life within the framework of the private world. In Soviet times, a person did not have personal space as such, since the state sought to control all spheres of society (Leibovich, 2009).
Housing redistribution - distribution of appropriated housing to the poor, with the eviction of owners of rich apartments (bourgeoisie).

A large amount of literature served as the basis for this study. This is due to the fact that many recent studies have focused on the housing problem in the USSR. Nevertheless, few researchers have taken into account the consideration of this topic at the micro level.
The academic tradition on housing in the USSR researches dates back to the end of the twentieth and the beginning of the twenty-first century. The first attempt to critically assess changes in housing policy was made by N. Lebina in 1999. She furnished her edition of this source with an article, which gave a broad theoretical basis for further research. For an up-to-date analysis it is logical to turn to more recent publications by I. Orlov and M. Meerovich. 

Meerovich M. G. in his work explores housing policy in the USSR in 1917-1937. The author shows what role housing played in human life. In addition, he shows how the state used housing as a means of attaching citizens to production, forcing them to increase labor productivity (Meerovich, 2008).

In the monograph by I. Orlov the emphasis is made on the communal apartment as a symbol of Soviet everyday life. The scholar considers the housing issue, both in the capital cities and in the provinces. Both works, therefore, shed new light on the issues under question (Orlov, 2010).

As far as housing conflicts and the emotional world of Soviet people in the 1920s is concerned, one of the most comprehensive surveys so far has been the article by Y. A. Mikulenok, who argues that a communal apartment becomes a source of stress and conflict during this period (Mikulenok, 2017). The value of this work is impossible to overestimate. 

A similar study belongs to A. Chernykh. In her research, she focuses on housing issues in the capitals, Moscow and Petrograd. In the article, A. Chernykh examines the changes in housing policy throughout the 1920s. The author shows how and who was affected by the housing redistribution (Chernykh, 1995).

Among foreign researchers the problem of housing issue in the USSR was dealt with by Atwood L., Andrusz G., Boym S., Inkeles A., Bauer R., and others.

Lynn Atwood studies the housing problem, paying particular attention to changes in political ideology, considering forms of housing, the housing policy of the Soviet state. A distinctive feature of her research is that she also studies the effect of housing on changes in male and female relationships and ways of different perceptions of home space (Atwood, 2010).

Another study belongs to Andrusz G. D. He studies the housing and urban environment, namely the construction, use of buildings, types of housing in Soviet cities. In addition, the peculiarity of this study is that the author shows the deviation of the Soviet government's housing policy plan from reality. Andrusz G. shows how Soviet society developed in the housing sector, how the needs of Soviet people for housing changed (Andrusz, 1984).

A similar study belongs to Kopp A. The author also examines architecture in the Soviet period. He believes that early socialist architecture arose not from European painting and sculpture, but from revolutionary ideals. Kopp A. believes that the 1920s. - a time of change and experimentation in a new way of life, both architecturally and socially. His work is especially important because he skillfully substantiates his views with rare plans, photographs and texts of articles, manifestos and documents collected in the Soviet Union (Kopp, 1970).

Medvedkov O. examined the hierarchy of the Soviet urban system, and also explained the functional characteristics of all major Soviet cities. In the study, the author assesses how the process of industrialization influenced Soviet life; the details of the Soviet census were used for this work (Medvedkov, 1990).

Researchers Incales A., Bauer R. also study industrial society. Their work is based on people's stories, their experience of how a Soviet person spent his daily life at home, at school, at work, on vacation and in political life. The authors review and analyze the experience of people from all walks of life (Incales, Bauer, 1959).

Sosnovy T. in his article considers the housing policy of the Soviet state in the pre-war and post-war times. Considering the Soviet periodicals in which the Soviet resident of the apartment proclaims the beginning of a new stage in life, he comes to the conclusion that the problem of urban housing in the USSR becomes much more urgent than at the time the revolution began (Sosnovy, 1952).

Later, Professor Boym S. gives her work in which she studies Soviet everyday life. She uses sources such as personal memories. She also draws attention to the consideration of the housing sector. Boym S. describes a communal apartment as a typical Soviet housing, in which everything should be visible, confidentiality is prohibited; The study examines the capitals of the Soviet cities of Moscow and Leningrad (Boym, 1994). 

The most generalized study belongs to Eaton K. She writes about what everyday life was like during the unusual years of the reign of the Soviet Union. One of the main topics in this study is housing. During this period, millions of Soviet citizens experienced dramatic changes in their daily lives. Soviet citizens were forced to endure revolution, civil war, two world wars, forced collectivization, famine and other periods. (Eaton, 2004).

Thus, recently, Soviet everyday life has been of interest to many researchers. The studies discussed above make it possible to assess the housing problem in the USSR and to see further directions in its study.

This part of the project gives special emphasis to the analysis of data. Here it is necessary to describe the data to be analyzed, and the methods to be used in carrying out the study. 

As the main methods in the study of materials were applied:
A comparative historical analysis that will be used to compare solutions to the housing problem in the capital and a provincial city and with the help of which the general and the special are revealed.

Source critical analysis method. In this case, the sources are administrative documents of local authorities and municipal organizations of Perm. It is necessary to analyze all the documents for 1917 - 1941, to identify the specifics of the period in which the sources were created, it is also necessary to analyze the influence of the ideology of that time on these sources.

The method of historical reconstruction: with the help of archival documents, attempts are made to reconstruct everyday life, and ways to solve the housing problem in Perm.

However, the interpretation process is a procedure that should be based on methodology. To do this, the study uses the theory of everyday life as a methodology, presented in the article by O. Leibovich. The author follows a phenomenological tradition, applying it to the Stalin era. In his article, O. Leibovich argues that everyday life must be perceived as a historical phenomenon, and therefore, it is possible to study it only in the context of the era.

Speaking about the future results of the study, it should be noted that at the stage of preparing the project proposal there is a hypothesis that will most likely be confirmed. This hypothesis suggests that formal and real ways of solving the housing problem in 1917 - 1941 in Perm did not conform each other.

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to specific questions outlined above, in accordance with the mentioned methodology. The first question, the main characteristics of the housing issue in the USSR from 1917 to 1941 will be determined in accordance with his presentation in the studies of other scientists; second, what are the features of ways to solve the housing problem in Perm will be identified on the basis of archival documents.

By accomplishing the research project, it would be extremely interesting to obtain information that is hardly presented in the media sources and literature. However, it should be noted that the implications presented in the study do not aspire to be conclusive and will be open to further academic debates.

In the conditions of the housing crisis, Soviet people experienced a difficult time in their history. The project discussed the features of the housing issue in the USSR in 1917 - 1941. Thus, the results of the study confirm the assumption that the formal ways of solving the housing problem did not correspond to the real ones.

Summing up the results of this study, we can draw the following conclusions. The housing policy of the Soviet government did not give the desired result, but led to the destruction of the housing stock and housing shortages. In practice, due to lack of housing, people lived in unsuitable apartments/rooms. This study contributes to our understanding of Soviet everyday life, namely housing policy, and contributes to historical science.