The issue of Kisaeng was suppressed up to the end of XX century, due to their specific position as courtesans and prostitutes. That behavior was despised by the Confucian ideology, which was the basis of the society of Joseon Dynasty. For this reason Kisaengs became the subject of research several decades ago, and for this reason the topic is not developed else in Russian historiography. The study involved the sensitive issue of Japanese occupation/ Because of these events between Korean and Japanese are continued abrasive relationships before now. Kisaengs connected with the phenomena of “comfort women”, which consequences are maintained in modern Korean society. 
	
The study is based on unique historical sources, which was not translated into Russian and English languages.
 Problem Statement.  The aim of the research is to consider peculiar features of their social position. The research decides following tasks for completely disclosure the purpose. First task is depiction of social hierarchy of Joseon Dynasty. Second task is to present their position on the basis Confucian ideology. Third task is to demonstrate features of their position within the Japanese Invasion.
Professional Significance. Researches within Russian historiography grounded on this topic present perfunctory manner, this study is more detailed analysis in terms of authority.

The research is intended to find answers to following questions. How interwork Kisaeng with authoritative ideology? How they reflected on state sources? Which image created in folk culture about these women? At the end of the study is examined the issue about the perception of their condition in modern culture by reference of movies and books.
Definitions of key terms. Kisaeng is professional group of women that was obligated to entertain the king and their civil servants by using dancing, singing, playing musical instruments and conversation on Confucian topics. They were one of the most educated people, but belonged to the lowest and despised social category cheonmin.
	
Cheonmin was the lowest social stratum in Joseon society. Their status was fixed juridically after 1392 and deprived all their rights. Cheonmin represented the close community: people can get it into this group, but they were deprived of possibility to leave it. This rule had been disturbed by Kisaeng. 
	
This work is grounded on the term “authority” that means acknowledgment in the bearer outstanding achievements, knowledge, skills, attainments, capabilities.
In the research figured the term as a “ascendancy”. This item according to Max Weber means the ability to influence over the behavior other people; it is the form of human relations.
	
Social status is researched as unofficial condition, whereas in contrast juridical status was fixed in law. The juridical standind is less changeable, so created the conflicts between the conditions “de jure” and “de facto”.
Literature Review
     
The topic was researched by Russian, Korean and international authors. But these works have depictive nature or are research in the field of literature. David McCann in his article “Traditional world of kisaeng” examine the subject of Kisaeng in the context of the literature, he focuses on their poetry writing. Lee Insuk in the article “Convention and Innovation: The Lives and Cultural Legacy of the Kisaeng in Colonial Korea (1910-1945)” discuss about entertainers, when Korea was occupied Japanese and their activity replaced the meaning.
Jennifer Jung-Kim in her dissertation “Gender and Modernity in Colonial Korea” analyzes the gender identity. By the Kisaeng she presents the beginning of publishing and labour activism of women in the period of Japanese Invasion.
In the Russian historiography famous scholar in Asian studies Smertin Y.G. published the article about the Kisaeng, but this work has perfunctory matter and provides only general characteristics about their profession. 
     
The book of Japanese historian Kawamura Minato” Kisaeng: The speaking flowers” has the form of demonstration of the nationalistic attitude toward the Koreans. The author presents all Kisaengs as prostitutes, but it is not hard fact. By the end of Joseon Dynasty there were three strictly classified grades of Kisaeng. First grade of them, which also known as “ilpae”, was the most privilege Kisaeng. They could not to practice the prostitution that was fixed in the law. Second grade, ipae, acted as part-time prostitutes and entertained at private parties with their artistic skills. Only the third category of women were considered as ‘changi”, that means “legal prostitutes”. Kawamura Minato gives pejorative connotations to Kisaengs based on the national animosity.
     
Katrina M. in here article “Korean Perceptions of Chastity, Gender Roles, and Libido; From Kisaengs to the Twenty First Century” examine the role of woman on the base of Confucian ideology. Researcher presents features of position of Korean woman from different estates. She focused on the gender factor.
     
McCarthy Louise was the author of study “Kisaeng in the Koryo period”, and gave information about the origins of Korean courtesans and examines their existence before the Joseon Dynasty that was begun in 1932. In the Koryo period they were entertainers in the Royal Court, but the law system of Joseon Dynasty related them to the category of “untouchables”.
	
The research is grounded in the sources, which was translated in Korean from ancient Chinese language only in 1994. It is Annals of the Joseon Dynasty that are the annual records of the Joseon Dynasty of Korea, which were kept from 1413 to 1865. These notes are the representation of the official state ideology and characterized by the negative flavor. In the source figures the term "insidious kisaeng". 
	
Another source is “The Tale of Chunhyang” that is considered as one of the best known love stories and folk tales of Korea. This tale  demonstrate the arise  of the term “moralist kisaeng”. Feature of the Korean courtesans is that they could not be loyal to one person. But Chunchyang showed qualities appropriate to true Confucian woman. So she got the possibility to marry her lover. In real situation kisaeng could not became first wife of civil servant, the law give for such women only the right to become their concubine.
	
Literature about this subject has descriptive character, so in the Russian and Korean historiography lacks analytical works. 
Methods
     
Topic of Kisaeng is researched from the perspective of juridical and social standings and analyzed the transformation of their images within the period from XIV to XX centuries. Their social condition is considered through the prism of term “authority”. This study grounded on the methodology of Max Weber and Jacques Le Goff. Their nearness to the elite endued the authority, but they maintained their lowest position. At the sources there it is moment, where official documents reported about the influence of Kisaeng on work of civil servant. In King Yeongjo’s Notes in the 21 year of the 20th day of the third month, that means 1745, was presented such report:"... Insidious Kisaeng interfered in work of province governor Cho Bong In, people suffered and suffered losses, they demanded to shift [the governor]". This fragment is obvious evidence of the kisaeng’s authority. They could to possess, but the term “insidious” demonstrate the image of kisaeng, which was created in official records, so it was position of the state. 
     
Entertainers, which belonged to the lowest social status of cheomnin, possessed large privileges equaled to yangbans, the elite of Joseon Dynasty. Even women of social group” yangban”  in terms of freedom were not equal for Kisaeng. Some women, belonging to the elite, chose the profession of courtesans to share this liberty. Their social position was more privileged as their juridical status. 
Results Anticipated
     
The result is to reconstruction of the image of Kisaeng by means of unique historical sources “Annals of the Joseon Dynasty” and folk culture literature. In consequence of the study is created the subsequence of representations, what changed in the time length.
Conclusion
     
Results of the research demonstrate that kisaeng’s status changed significant. In the beginning of Joseon Dynasty their juridical standing fixed them as the lowest stratum of the society, attitude toward them was adverse. Vocation of Kisaeng is thought of as a view of the punishment, but after the Imgin War the attitude to them was fluctuated. At this war they declare themselves as heroic figures. In the end of Joseon Dynasty appeared writings of the folklife culture, in which courtesans are presented in a positive way. They had punished greedy civil sevants, also entertainers became the implementation of the freedom. They perceived as example of scholarship, elegance and beauty. After the Gabo reform in 1894, Confucian hierarchical structure was abolished, so all Korean social categories were equaled. This position continued a short time, and at the 1910 was begun the Japanese Invasion. In the period under the Japanese rule they became continuer of traditional Korean culture. They helped to create the folk culture, when everything relating with Korean nation was suppressed by Japanese. In kwonbons, that was the house and school of kisaeng, they continued to entertain Korean songs and traditional Korean dancing. Japanese perceived them as things, which could be bought. In the modern culture origin features, based on the assignment of intimate services is ignored. Modern movies and book are present Kisaengs as examples of liberty. They became the main characters of the series that was not typical to the beginning of the XXI century. 
     
Last few years the topic of Kisaeng became more broadcast. The unique character of condition these women give a wide field of research. As a result this study, which analyze the status of Korean courtesans through the prism of their authority, belong to the actual movement in Korean studies and make a contribution to the research of Korean society.