It is necessary to separate such concepts as Soviet official ideology and Soviet aesthetics, and especially the aesthetics of cinema, since the latter often, implicitly, but goes in some separation from the ideological attitudes of the party, this is especially noticeable in the late Soviet film industry. It is also necessary to take into account the weak knowledge of this problem. This is mainly due to the general historical trend of the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st-«the study of the ideal or typical». We can say that historians are too fixated on studying typical works of culture and art of the USSR since they go almost directly with the party's installations (speaking of cinema, this is primarily ideologically «correct» film critics and full control of the professional press.)
When studying «bad» movies or «bad» in movies, we focus on this very divergence of ideology and film criticism. 
 
The main purpose of this study is to reconstruct the aesthetic and ideological standards of Soviet film criticism of the late Soviet period based on devastating film reviews. 

In conformity with the research aim the objectives are the following:
to determine the structure and role of film criticism as an institution of Soviet culture functioning;
to reconstruct the semantic model of a  «bad» movie based on movie reviews;
to identify the factors that determine the standards of Soviet film criticism.

Due to the fact, the work is based on the analysis of periodicals, namely the magazines «Soviet Screen» and «Film Art», there is no place delimitations since the magazines were printed and published throughout the Soviet Union. The time delimitations are for the period from 1957 to 1985.

Can we study and conceptualize the concept of «bad» in the Soviet film industry in the period from 1957 to 1985, based on the reviews of film critics of such magazines as «Soviet Screen»?

What is the degree of dependence and autonomy of film criticism as an agent of the cultural and ideological sphere in discursive practices?

What are the dynamics of value orientations in the cinema?

Professional Significance. In domestic historiography, this topic has been studied very little. A similar situation in foreign historiography. The scientific novelty of the work is due to the use of relatively recently appeared methods of the interdisciplinary direction of digital humanities. Semantic analysis allows us, as researchers, to systematize and visualize huge layers of data, so-called big data in history. What is especially important is the ability to create the most visual model of the semantic network in the process of post-processing the collected data. At the moment, there is not a sufficient pool of research that, being at first glance classical works on quantitative history, would use such a method as semantic analysis and the creation of semantic networks.

The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works, some of which are devoted to Soviet film criticism and work with film reviews, and the other part is devoted to semantic analysis. They will be reviewed consistently. 
Based on the article by Khramov V. B. «Soviet cinema as a phenomenon of Soviet culture», one can partially answer the question about the fundamental importance of film production in the U.S.S.R. The article focuses on cinema as a socio-cultural phenomenon, which is viewed by the author through the prism of the Soviet era. Against the background of a historical perspective, the author paints a convincing picture of film production, which in the conditions of Communist construction was a truly national affair.

For qualitative research, it is necessary to understand how film reviews are written in order to approach their analysis from a more professional point of view. Information about film reviews is contained in the article by Efremenko A. A. «The film Criticism and the film journalism: differentiation of creative activity of a journalist». This article describes in detail the functions of film criticism, the genres that film critics work with, and the structure of the review text.

Another article by Lubasheva N. I. «Domestic book criticism problems of the 60s of the XX century» contains information directly about the points of view of individual Soviet film critics and film experts and the laws of artistic creativity in cinema.

For research, it is very important to study the film reviews of such magazines as «Soviet Screen» and «Film Art». Researcher Stephen P. Hill is engaged in a deep analysis of Soviet and Russian film journalism.  In his articles (1960, 1965), he relies on interviews with film critics and cinematographers and analyzes Soviet feature films in their domestic versions. Stephen P. Hill reports, that modern Soviet cinema is arousing new interest in the world's film audience, offering an increasing variety and an increasingly interpretation of the plot. Much attention is paid to technique and form, and the state recognizes the right of filmmakers to self-expression individually. The author also examines the place of Soviet cinema in the world cinema scene, highlighting the main factors that will make Soviet cinema noticeable again. The researcher gives an important place in Soviet film studies to the «literary scenario». 

As for the study of semantic analysis, one of the most complete and informative resources for my research will be the article by Hyoji H., Hyunwoo H., Seongming M., Sungyun B., Jihtye L., Kyungwon L. «An improved study of multilevel semantic network visualization for analyzing sentiment word of movie review data». The method justified in the article is proposed for refining the vast amount of collective intelligence data and visualizing it using a multi-level network of keys to understanding the relevant information intuitively and semantically. This method of semantic interpretation minimizes network learning in the system since the fixed network topology exists only as a guide to help users understand. The researchers put forward the thesis that a network formed in a certain described way will look like a multi-level visualization of the tonality network after certain three steps, such as developing a heatmap visualization, create a two-dimensional multidimensional scaling map of semantic word data and create an asterism graphic with emotions. The method is appropriate as an alternative method for semantic understanding. 

Another literature on this topic is the book of Goddar C., Shalley C. Andrea (2010) completely devoted to the study and application of semantic analysis. For extended texts, applications of semantic analysis may include information retrieval, information extraction, text summarization, data-mining, and machine translation and translation aids.

Moreover, to understand the evolution of the idea of a «bad» film, it is necessary to refer to the methodology of the theory of standardization of reading, and specifically to such authors as Altman R., Cobley P., and Tompkins J. These texts seeks to revise notions of film genre. These texts seek to redefine ideas about the genre of cinema. Film criticism itself is seen as a social practice.

The main methodological basis of the study is reading formation theory, which has been described in detail in the works of such authors as Altman R., Cobley P., and Tompkins J. The key points of this methodology are, first of all, that the film critic, when analyzing a film, does not make a thorough assessment of it by certain parameters, but categorizes it. When categorizing a film, critics seek to standardize «categories», forming so-called habits of meaning. It is also important to note that the «categories» of movies are hierarchized relative to each other. The choice of «categories» of films is influenced by institutional, social, cultural, and political factors, including the opinion of a certain authority. The system of such «categories» forms the «policy of taste». As critics categorize films, one of these «categories» becomes «bad film». They are considered as one of the categories at the bottom of the hierarchy. The method of analysis is firstly a meaningful understanding of the category of bad movies-semantic analysis. It includes the codification of film critics ' claims based on smashing film reviews, the formation of a semantic network – stable links between these claims, and then the analysis of this semantic network-the identification of stable/volatile groups of claims, the identification of nuclear and peripheral claims. Secondly, the search for explanatory institutional factors of the identified semantics, such as the semi-official discourse on art and cinema, the socio-political agenda, the interdepartmental hierarchies of film critics and the fashion. 

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to four specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the structure and role of film criticism as an institution for the functioning of Soviet culture was determined, then the semantic model of the «bad» film of Soviet film criticism was reconstructed, based on the devastating reviews published in the Soviet magazines «Soviet Screen» and «Film Art», and finally during the analysis of devastating film reviews, ideological and aesthetic factors that influenced the formation of the image of a «bad» film were identified.

At the moment, for research compiled database of over 200 entries, collected the materials, established modeling technique semantic networks, made hypotheses about influencing factors.

To sum up, based on the reviews of film critics published in the famous Soviet and Russian magazines «Soviet Screen» and «Film Art», the study was able to conceptualize and study the concept of «bad» cinema in the Soviet film industry in the period from 1957 to 1985. The most representative and useful in the study were not just reviews of «bad» cinema, but just devastating reviews, because they have a higher degree of extrapolation of the opinion of the film critic.
        
As it turned out, the degree of dependence and autonomy of film criticism as an agent of the cultural and ideological sphere directly and quite clearly correlates with the party line, if we consider it in the optics of discursive practices. This is obviously due to the fact, that cinema and its subsequent criticism is a fairly effective way of relaying the ideological vector of power.