Introduction
Investment activity is one of the key factors of company's economic growth and enlargement. It defines the level of production, quality and competitiveness of products. The high rate of  investment activity is also a necessary condition for development of  a country in general.
Capital investments is an important direction of company investments. The costs of modernization and expansion of the existing capital stock characterize the strategy of an internal growth. The decision on the amount of capital investment  depends on various factors. Therefore the investment activity of companies is the subject of a great number of researches. 
The investment behavior of companies is affected by company's own resources, financial constraints, investment climate and a lot of other internal and external factors in accordance with current theories. It should be pointed out that  determinants of the level of capital investment, as the investment activity index, may vary considerably for different companies and especially for companies in different countries. There are not many researches that examine the capital costs of Russian companies and the factors which influence their growth. 
So the research question of this paper is what factors can influence the capital costs of Russian companies and in what way ? It is necessary to perform the following tasks to meet this goal:
1. to examine relevant literature, basic theories and assumptions concerning factors that affect the fixed assets costs of the company;
2. to identify determinants of investment activity in order to study their influence on  Russian companies investment activity;
3. to develop hypotheses based on the theoretical review;
4. to form a sample and describe empirical data for Russian companies to build a model;
5. to adopt an econometric model and methods for the study of the resulting model and assess the impact of selected factors;
6. to interpret the results of the estimated model, to verify and falsify the hypotheses;
7. to consider the limitations of work and possible ways to improve it.
The methodological base of research are theoretical models and empirical studies of Russian and foreign economists in the field of investments and corporate finance. The paper applied the methods of comparative and systematic analysis, economic and mathematical methods (panel regression analysis).
The work consists of several parts. The first part presents the theoretical basis of the study. Key works in the investment behavior of companies were examined. Special attention was paid to some researches about the non-fundamental investment activity factors. In the next part, based on a literature review the research question and hypotheses will be formed. The third section includes a description of variables in the model, a preliminary analysis of a sample and methodology of the study. Econometric analysis will be used for the hypotheses verification and falsification, in particular the method of least squares estimation through regression and fixed effects model. The last part presents empirical results of the work and existing constraints.

Theoretical background
This part of the project is meant to examine theoretical studies in the field of company's investment behaviour. The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. However the primary focus will be on investment activity of a company and methods of its estimation. Since the notion of investment activity is highly complicated and extremely complex it is appropriate to frame it - resorting to intensity of company's investment activity. There are different ways to characterise the intensity of investment activity and in this project light is going to be shed only on capital investments or capital expenditures. 
Capital expenditures represent investments that are used for the expansion of company's fixed capital. These investments make it possible  to improve product quality, production efficiency and reduce costs. So companies should experience extensive expenses to take a production to a higher level and the more a company spends on a fixed capital the more the level. That is why the amount of  capital investments is a very important indicator of company's performance and such researches as Fazzari, Hubbard, Petersen (1988), Baum (2010), Li-Kai Liao (2016), Hobdari (2009), Aivazian (2005), Gennaioli (2015) use capital expenditures to determine the investment activity. 
There are a lot of different factors that can influence capital expenditures rate in reality. The wide range of possibilities and constraints exist on micro- and macro level. The actual history of this branch of science is traced to the works of authors such as Fazzari, Hubbard, Petersen (1988), Kaplan, Zingales (1997) and Cleary (1999) about corporate investment and firm investment behaviour. The researches addressed mainly to most elementary characteristics of  company's investment activity.  First of all, they highlight microeconomic factors that are directly related to firm performance such as sales, revenue, rate of return and capital investments of a prior period. There is no doubt that financial results are the main factors affecting capital investments of a company but quite recent investigations look more closely at many other factors. 
According to Audretsch, Elston (2002), Teplova, Pankova (2007), Ivashkovskaya and Solntseva (2009) such factors as company size, its age, type of production and capital structure have a high impact. For example, large companies have an ability to finance capital expenditures from internal funds as well as by means of debt securities issuance while small companies cannot have such a choice. So aforementioned authors mean that even such general characteristics of a firm are important in studies of investment activity. (Audretsch, Elston (2002)) There are also theories which authors treat the notion mainly from nonfundamental factors. Such factors are associated with corporate governance, executive compensation plan, personal skills of top managers and other company's characteristics that can have a knock-on effect on capital investments. (Teplova, Pankova (2007), Cherkasova (2012)) On the contrary, a lot of researchers consider externalities as having a significant influence on company's investment activity. Inflation, interest rate and tax liabilities are pointed out. (Lamont (2000)) 
It could not be denied that investment climate in general has a great effect on a company's investment activity and on its capital expenditures consequently. However this paper will bring financial indicators of a company and fundamental factors to the foreground.
A lot of empirical researches confirm that cash flow of a company has a positive effect on an amount of capital expenditures. Such authors as Fazzari, Hubbard, Petersen (1988), Tae-Nyun Kim (2014) and others came to this conclusion. However in studies of  Kaplan and Zingales (1997) and Cleary (1999) the dependence of  capital investments from cash flow is explained differently. The scientists find that companies with less liquidity constraints are more sensitive to changes in cash flow. They explain that if the cost of debt becomes smaller company's managers nevertheless tend to use internal funds. Many of previous studies also highlight the positive impact of lag indicator of revenue on capital expenditures. (Gordon, Iyengar (1996)) It is obvious that the increase in revenue lead to the higher amount of money that can be spend on company's fixed capital. 
There is not the only accurate description about the link between the capital expenditures and the return on investment. This indicator can  be modified by reducing costs to increase its volume in the short term. It is also possible that the revenue from capital investments is not estimated correctly because the costs of investment project can be repaid within a few periods. So a number of downsides while evaluating the return on investment should be considered. (Cherkasova, Teplova (2011)). 
There are theories which authors put an emphasis on a financial leverage as a factor of company's investment activity. Financial leverage is used in estimation models to take into account the impact of firm borrowings on its ability to spend money on fixed capital. Mostly when a company has a large debt it tries to decrease its costs and that is why do not make new investments. (Aivazian (2005), Dang (2011), Haejun Jeon, Michi Nishihara (2015)) 
Empiric researches about the company's investment activity use different approaches to estimate capital expenditures. Earliest studies are focused on fundamental factors that directly related to investment activity. New studies give attention to the indicators of uncertainty and nonfundamental factors. However there is not much empirical works that could provide the information about Russian companies. So this trend needs to be investigated in greater detail and will be further examined in the project proposal.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out of this study giving special emphasis to the model of estimation and variables. The goal of the research will be achieved by the panel regression analysis which will consist of the pooled regression and fixed effects models estimation. The pooled regression allows to take preliminary results and the fixed effects model is based on the panel form of data that will give us more certain results. 
The dependent variable in models is fixed capital expenditures of a company. Fazzari, Hubbard, Petersen (1988), Baum (2010), Li-Kai Liao (2016), Hobdari (2009), Aivazian (2005), Gennaioli (2015) and other authors of empirical studies use the same indicator estimating the investment activity. Explicative variables are cash flow, total revenue, capital intensity, Tobin's Q ratio, financial leverage and a dummy of a company's owner. 
Therefore there are two basic specifications of estimating models:
(1)
(2)
where 
ÑapExt  -  capital expenditures of a company in a current term;
ÑapExt-1  -  capital expenditures of a company in a prior period ;
Salest-1 - sales revenues of a company in a prior period;
CFt-1  - cash flow of a company in a prior period;
CapInt  -  capital intensity;
Tobin_Q -  Tobin's Q ratio;
Leverage  - financial leverage;
Owner  - dummy of a company's owner (1 -if a company's owner is a government, 0 - otherwise ).
There are different specifications because of the high rate of correlation between the cash flow and the sales revenues that make it impossible to take both factors in a model at the same time.
Financial characteristics of companies were taken from financial data reports of different Russian companies  based on Ruslana (Bureau and Dijik) database that has observations for the period from 2006 to 2015. So it should be noted that data has a panel form. It is also should be pointed out that in the sample there are companies that satisfy the following conditions: companies shares are traded on the stock exchange, companies do not belong to financial sector.

Predicted outcomes
Speaking about the future results of the study it should be stated that at the stage of preparing the project proposal there is a number of  hypotheses which most probably are going to be proved. It is assumed that capital expenditures of a prior period has a positive impact on capital expenditures of a current. There is no doubt that managers take into account the amount of capital investments of a previous period while making decision about the amount of a next period. For example, when a large-scale investment project is realising costs are divided and  investments of a next period can depend on the previous ones. However it should be highlighted that there is not the only one right option. Sometimes a huge  amount of previous period capital expenditures can lead to decrease in these costs in the next period. 
In this study we also anticipate that cash flow and sales revenues of a prior period has a positive impact on capital expenditures of a next period. Such financial indicators characterise the performance of a company in general. So if company had a successful period and earned a lot of money it could spend them on a fixed capital in the next period. One more assumption is that companies which owner is a government have more capital investments. Government can use a company as a channel for a capital infusion while a private owner can be concentrated on maximizing dividends. We also believe that financial leverage influences capital expenditures. If a company increases the level of a debt and takes more liabilities free cash flow that can be used on capital expenditures will reduce.
By accomplishing the research project it would be extremely interesting to receive the information concerning Russian companies and confront it with the findings of other countries.

Limitations of research
It should be pointed out that there are some limitations and restrictions in this study. First of all, the findings can be used only in the context of Russian companies. Secondly, the results can be deviated because the sample had outliers and all companies included satisfied the certain conditions. We also cannot confirm that estimated models do not have endogeneity that influence its quality. Further study should take into account this problem and respecify explicative variables.


