Introduction
People seek to live in more comfortable places. This comfortability can be measured through location’s physical characteristics, neighborhood amenities, economic conditions and social environment. The existence of agglomeration effect makes cities attractive for people. Cities concentrate and give rise to social relationships, high-quality human capital and demand for qualified labor force. That is why cities are a subject of numerous studies.
Education is certainly one of the factors affecting migration both between cities and countries and within a city. On a city level, it is suggested that people a likely to prefer living closer to better schools. This paper investigates the effect of school quality and overcrowding on the residential properties prices in the city of Perm, Russia. In other words, we explore whether citizens are set for having indirect costs of high-quality schooling.
Indirect costs can be expressed as an extra amount of money buyers are willing to pay while buying apartments assigned to a "better" school. It is necessary to specify: in this paper we assume that the quality of school is the complex of some formal measures such as the average Unified State Exam score in the school, occupancy rate, etc. Consequently, the general objective of this paper is to identify whether such an effect exists in the context of secondary real estate market of Perm, Russia. Moreover, we intend to investigate, how significant is the impact of this factor for the pricing within the market.  To achieve the general object we need to hit several tasks:
1. To examine previous papers related with our research area summing up the most relevant methods of research, problems arising and their solutions;
2. To collect and process the data containing the information about the apartments in the market, their internal characteristics, geographic location. Besides, we need data about Perm schools, their quality and houses assigned to all of them;
3. To estimate the econometric model for the dependence of housing prices on school characteristics and to interpret the results;
4. To define limitations and problems of the research, its eliminating and improving the project;
Researchers have long been interested in the pricing mechanism on real estate market. Most of papers were processed on north-American cities data. The only attempt to estimate the effect of school education quality on house prices in Russia is (Chugunov, 2013). In comparison with this paper, actual research applies spatial lag econometric model for investigating the research question. Moreover, the unique dataset has been collected for conducting this research. It contains the data on prices and characteristics of 18000 secondary apartments in Perm, school characteristics and distances between objects counted on geographical coordinates.
The problem of schools quality impact on housing prices is particularly true for Perm because of special features of public schools enrollment. Every school is set to enroll pupils from houses that are assigned to that particular school. That system led to the formation of informal registration market: owners of properties assigned to better schools disposed the registration of passport for future first-graders. In view of this, city citizens are willing to pay for the high-quality schooling. 
The structure of the paper is as follows: Section 2 provides the theoretical background of the research; Section 3 offers the methodology and data analysis; Section 4 presents and discusses the empirical results.

Theoretical background
Researchers have long been interested in the pricing mechanism on the real estate market. The most traditional approach of price modeling is a hedonic regression including internal and external house characteristics. American and European real estate markets are, to some extent, more complex than Russian one, basically because large-scale development is not typical for them. 
A wide range of neighbourhood characteristics can be utilized in a model. The most common ones are transport accessibility, crime rate and ecological characteristics. In a case when the research is not directly focused on the impact of transport accessibility on the housing values, the model generally includes the distance to the CBD (Gibbons & Machin, 2003; Bowes & Ihlanfeldt, 2001 etc.). To measure of safety and security of the district 2 different  approaches can be used. The first was applied in (Chugunov, 2013): the safety of district is characterized as proportion of crimes committed in the district to the total annual number of crimes in Moscow. The second approach is to use proxy- variables, for example, the fraction of vacant in the neighborhood or the fraction of houses that were sold at least once in 5 last years (Downes& Zabel, 2002). The quality of environment is usually determined through the value of pollutants in the air. (see Kim et al, 2003; Katyshev & Khakimova, 2014 for more details). 
The key problem while the housing is how to relate apartments and schools. In researches (Black, 1999; Brasington, 2009; Bogart & Cromwell, 2000; Clapp et al., 2008; Ries & Sommerville, 2010) conducted on North Americans cities and towns data, this problem in fact doesn’t exist because cities are parted by school district boarders.  Each school district usually includes at least one school of every education stage.  The apartments are assigned to school districts, and data is collected and analyzed at the level of districts instead of level of schools.  Probably, that’s exactly why in the US the works about the affection of adjusted school district boundaries on real estate pricing.  However, the new problem  exists, school district often don’t consist with census tracts. Some of authors (e.g. Chugunov, 2013) considers the house to be assigned to all schools in 1 km radius.  It allows taking into account some features of demand on the education quality. In some works such as (Downes & Zabel, 2002) houses were assigned to the closest school. Available data that we have in our research are different to some extent:  we already have information about how houses are assigned to schools.   
Another problem that appears to estimate the capitalization of the education in housing prices is how to evaluate the quality of schools.  The main problem is the quality of schools can be correlated with characteristics of pupils who studied in these schools (Downes & Zabel, 2002; Weimer & Wolkoff, 2001; Davidoff & Leigh, 2008; Chugunov, 2013 etc.). In these works four main factors were indicated that show the quality of schools. The first and often-observed factor is the results of standardized tests on one or more subjects passed by the majority of students.  The benefits of these results are obvious, because the students pass the exams of the same difficulty in the same conditions and at on point of time. It minimizes the probability of biased results. This approach is used in Black (1999), Brasington (2009), Bogart & Cromwell (2000), Ries & Sommerwille (2010), Kane et al. (2005), Brasington & Haurin (2006), Fack & Grenet (2010) and other papers. In the most pat of these papers the data about quality in American towns and cities are used. It is necessary to say that there are no the common format of intermediate and final exams in elementary, secondary and high schools.  Each state has their own system of examination and estimating.  This makes the comparison of results quite complicated.
Also in some papers there are measures of school quality connected with the quantity of resources available. The approach such as funding per pupil is generally used. It allows to school to hire more qualified teachers (Figlio & Lucas, 2004); that leads to appreciation of neighborhood houses.  
There are also some factors that are not obviously connected with exams results but can affect the quality of school.  Such factors are discussed in (Downes & Zabel, 2002). Similarly to the case of  unobservable district qualities authors supposed that there are observed characteristics of schools connected with its quality. That’s why they include in the model the fraction of Latins and Africans in total number or pupils.
Its important that in the majority of models these variables were statistically significant. Unobservable characteristics of pupils were taken into account in (Kane et al., 2005). Reback (2005) and other works show that the school taxes are also capitalized in housing values.
The last factor that can be used to evaluate the quality of school is the distance between school and house (Bogart & Cromwell, 2000). This factor is rarely used because of irrelevant data. Bogart & Cromwell (2000) used the proxy-  dammy variable that takes a value 1 if pupil use the bus to get to school after the redistricting school areas. The change in transport accessibility decreases the housing price on the average on 6.9% percent (about $4000) other things being equal. By contrast, (Chugunov, 2013) didn’t reveal statistically significant effect of distance on the housing price. 
The problem evaluating the distance between objects is common for researches in real estate economics. Authors generally use the data on geographic coordinates and calculate the distance through the Pifagor Theorem appendix. At the same time the distance can be counted as a length of the shortest way between objects. The distance is sometimes suggested through the inclusion of several dummy-variables (e.g., from 0 to 1 mile, from 1 to 2 miles etc.). In (Des Rosiers et al., 1996; Bowes & Ihlanfeldt, 2001) it allows to demonstrate the difference in character and degree of price changes depending on the distance from house to school. 
It also matters what specification and identification methods were used in previous works. The most common econometric tool here is standard multiple linear regression. Hedonic pricing being correctly used allows to evaluate the effect of all characteristics on the real estate prices. At the same time it is necessary to keep in mind that omitted variables of the housing or neighborhood quality leads to biased estimators. Using proxy-variables is a sustainable way of omitted variables problem solving (Downes & Zabel, 1997; Weimer & Wolkoff, 2001). Besides, IV, repeat sales methodology or spatial lag specification are also correct approaches to take omitted variables into account. Hui et al use Moran I test as a marker of spatial dependence and spatial autocorrelation existing in the data. 
All in all, researchers are united in the point of view that better school performance positively affects the housing value. Ries & Sommerville (2010) also assumed that school quality affect will be different for apartments with one room and for apartments with several rooms. In this case the hypothesis was rejected. For properties with two or more rooms the price change was not the highest in the sample. At the same time it was revealed that better schools has the highest affect on housing prices in districts where the median income is higher. It means that more wealthy citizens are going to pay more for better education for their children. 
The only attempt to estimate the affection of school quality on properties pricing is (Chugunov, 2013). The data contains results on state exam on Russian and Maths for 1438 schools in Moscow. Average scores on school and fraction of students having excellent and wrong results on both subjects were available. However, the scores on Maths and language were included in separate models because these indicators are highly correlated and lead to the collinearity problem. The feature of this paper is that the data was aggregated on the school level  while in the majority of previous works it was done on the school districts level. It allowed to reveal, in particular, that location of the property in the neighborhood where gymnasium or lyceum is allocated increases the price for about 2,6-3,4%. The effect is commonly small but statistically significant.
As can be seen from the above, the  dependence of the real estate pricing on the neighborhood characteristics is not constant and depends on the wide range of factors. In our research we will use the distance to school; it will allow us to take into consideration the quality of neighborhood to which the house is assigned and the quality of education in school. Besides, the geocoded data we have allows us to take into account some unobservable characteristics of neighborhood through the existence of spatial autocorrelation. 
The analysis of previous papers shows the interest of an academic community to this research field. Despite the abundance of papers proceed on the North American cities data there is a lack of researches made on Russian cases. In this work we make an attempt to make up this shortfall and to identify the impact of education quality on apartments' prices in Perm, Russia. Moreover, we employ the unique dataset that will be described in details in the next section.

Methodology and procedure
All the previous researches employ the model of standard multiple linear regression as a basic for a houses' prices explanation through internal characteristics and neighbourhood attributes.  As it was shown in the previous section spatial data is known to include the spatial dependence. In other words, OLS-estimations produced on this data will be biased and inconsistent (LeSage & Pace, 2009). It is quite common problem for such a studies and spatial autoregression model (SAR) is being used as a solution for this. Weighting matrix is a component that makes a difference between standard regression and SAR. It is a traditional way of spatial dependence accounting in the model, so, it seems crucial to focus on it in our study.
It is meant seven specifications of hedonic regression will be estimated. Basic specification (1) represents the linear regression explaining the price just through internal house characteristics. Estimations for (1) will be produced using OLS. Model (2) is, in fact, the model (1) modified to spatial autoregression and will be estimated using MLE. Specification (3) includes, in addition to the above, the attributes of school the home is assigned to. Consequently, modification from (1) to (3) allows to eliminate the effect of spatial dependence and to understand whether schools' characteristics have a statistically significant impact on the surrounding property values. 
Models (4)-(7) test the best specification among (1)-(3) dividing the common sample into subsamples. For instance, models (4)-(5) verify the hypothesis that one-room and multiple-rooms homes owners value the quality of school education in different ways. Ries et al. (2010) developed the same hypothesis assuming that multiple-room homes owners more likely have children, so occupants of such a property value better school education higher. Despite the proposition was rejected on the data for the city of Vancouver, Canada it seems necessary to check how different are models of demand for education that residents of apartments with different number of rooms show in Perm. 
Specifications (6)-(7) will be tested on the subsamples with the price of square meter higher and lower than the median, respectively. Higher square meter price indicates implicitly relatively high household income. Consequently, dividing the sample into subsamples with the price per square meter higher and lower than the median allows to check whether the income effect on the willingness to pay more for a better education exists. 
The unique set of data was collected for the research. Information on prices in the period from October 2014 to February 2015 was agglomerated from more than 18000 offers for sale on Metrosphera web-site. In addition to price, total and living areas, kitchen area, number of rooms, as well as the floor are known. The type and material of the construction, and, in addition, the district where the house is located also were obtained. Geo-coordinates for each of the objects have been obtained at the standard longitude-latitude format. What about records on public schools, they are available on the Joint Perm Education Portal. The data includes the school status, information on the education quality and the list of homes assigned to each school.
As it was mentioned in the literature review, the most commonly used indicator of the education quality is the result of unified test. Russian Unified State Examination is conducted for 11 grades graduates and involves the compulsory exams on the Russian language and Maths. In addition, students pass elective exams on other subjects in school course, depending on the requirements of the university they plan to enter to. So, we are available to the compulsory and elective exams average test scores and the proportion of graduates who have received more than 225 points based on three tests results.
It was pointed in the literature review that some researchers consider the school occupancy is an important school attribute. Typically, it is calculated as the number of pupils per teacher. In this case it is possible to say about the school occupancy on the ratio of its actual and planned number of pupils. 
There are 11 types of materials in the initial sample. In accordance with their technical characteristics they were grouped into two categories - brick and panel. Wooden houses were excluded from the sample. The type of construction is one more available attribute of property. There are 8 types in the sample:
A. Stalin project (1930s-1950s);
B. Khrushchev project (1950s-1960s);
C. Brezhnev project (1965-1985);
D. Leningrad project (1970s-1980s);
E. Small-family project (1980-1987)
F. Upgraded plan (1985-2000);
G. Individual plan (2000-present).
Therefore, there are 14300 observations in a cross-sectional dataset after the initial data analysis. Each apartment corresponds to its internal characteristics, geographical coordinates, as well as the school the house is assigned to. For each school the set of qualitative characteristics and geographical coordinates is available, and the distance between the school and the house was counted.
Because of Stata software restrictions it is impossible to estimate models on the total sample. That is why the random sample of 40% observations was generated. All the calculations were performed using selected number of observations.
Moran's I test shows that observations in our data are more clustered than if they were distributed randomly. That is the reason for applying spatial autoregressive model in addition to standard hedonic pricing approach. So it allowed us to obtain estimates unaffected by spatial autocorrelation. Specification including schools' and apartments' parameters and a spatial lag produced most stable and statistically significant estimates.

Predicted outcomes
Probably, a statistically significant dependence of the apartment price on the quality of school the home is assigned to will be revealed. What about the testing the best model on subsamples it seems that multiple-room apartments owners value the access to the better education higher as well as relatively more expensive property owners. Estimations for the spatial lag model will be potentially more precise. Results of model testing will be compared to the previous papers. 
It is planned that the results of the study will be used to create a web-application allowing to evaluate automatically a secondary living property, taking into account both internal characteristics and neighbourhood attributes.

Limitations of research
In conclusion, it seems necessary to discuss some limitations of our research. It comes from the assumption that a home buyer considers the opportunity of admission to school on registration. This is relevant mostly to future first-grade pupils' parents. At the same time, potential buyers still can choose the other school, while a pupil may be, for example, a high schooler. In such a case the demand for schools becomes more heterogeneous, and this is our model does not account for.
Moreover, probably, the criteria parents consider choosing a school for a first-grader child are different from those taken into account in our model. The number of applications before the beginning of the last school year may be such a factor, for example. We do not have this data at the current moment; however, this information can really improve the study.
It should be noted that the number of buildings assigned to each school is significantly different and the average price in these homes also different. Simply put, there is a small number of houses assigned to status schools and the average price here is higher than on an average in Perm. It is obvious that this should complicate our model.

