THEORETICAL BACKGROUND
In our fast-paced world, there are serious trends of demographic changes. These changes, namely, the reduction in the birth rate, the change in the age at marriage, increasing the number of people who prefer cohabitation or loneliness marriage and the increase in the number of divorces, which show statistics, influence not only on the sociology and demography, but also on economics, psychology and many other disciplines.
Many social policies in our time are aimed to increase the birth rate and the stability of the family. Therefore, one of the major issues it is studying the factors influencing age of marriage. In America, Eastern and Western Europe, the impact of the micro and macro indicators on marriages has been studied for many years. In Russia, these studies are carried out not so long, but it is already marked that we can observe the increase of marriage age for women, and as a result, the growth of the first pregnancy age.
The aim of this study is to identify the socio-economic factors affecting the marriage age of individuals in Russia with the help of the econometric analysis. The question «Which factors and how affect the age of marriage" has been already asked by many authors. From the literature analysis on this topic it was found that there are a lot of factors which can influence the age of marriage. Thus, the ultimate goal of the study is not only to define the factors but also realise what kind of influence they make.
The work solves a number of tasks that helped to achieve this goal. In order to achieve the main goal of the work I have to concentrate on the following tasks:
* Identifying research base, 
* Searching and to studying the relevant literature on the main research question, 
* Performing econometric analysis of the factors influencing age at marriage, 
*Analysing the results and identifying which determinants and how the impact on the age of marriage.
Russian legislation indicates the minimum age of marriage - 18 years (sometimes as an exception it is reduced to 16 years). However, the age limit is not specified in the legislation.
In recent years, the age at which individuals getting married has increased for both sex: men and women.  What it can be connected to?
Studying of factors that have a direct or indirect impact on the age of marriage, influence the majority of modern science for many decades: economics, sociology, psychology etc. There are some theories which determine the choice of the people and explain the factors that guide people.
For the first time this issue was investigated by Commins. He singled out the theory of parenting, which shows that individuals make the choice of partner based on the values ??and priorities which they got in childhood. Thus, the pattern of behaviour of parents has a direct impact on children’s age of marriage (Commins W., 1932).
By the time, another theory has appeared. It reveals that late marriages are common among optimistic people, but unlucky in their choice of potential couple. On the contrary, early marriage are inherent to those who are lucky in the choice of a spouse but pessimistic.
Research shows that the choice of partners is often carried out by similarity. Thus, individuals pay attention to psychological, biological and financial compliance, as well as to the age of the partner.
Theory of similarities was considered by another author (Winch, 1958). He identified a clear dependence between the properties possessed by spouses, namely:
* Race
* Education
* Place of birth
* Financial situation
* Intellectual development
Gary Becker considered the marriage from a purely economic side. According to his point of view, marriage is a kind of partnership, the contract concluded with the purpose of sharing of consumption and production. Each individual has a utility function, based on which he/she decides if to marry or not. It is obvious that if the general utility function value exceeds the value of the utility functions’ sum, then they marry.
There is a theory of filters (Kalminov M., 1994), which admit 3 stages of choosing a partner:
1. Search for similar cultural characteristics: race, status, age
2. Search for similar values ??in life
3. Search for similar joint needs
Before each individual question arises: to remain single, living together with a partner (cohabiting) or to marry. According to the data about US population we can make the following conclusions. Firstly, whites are more likely to marry, while blacks prefer cohabitation. The probability of marriage increases with an increase in the number of years of cohabitation, which is quite logical. Secondly, women with a higher education are more in demand in the marriage than those who has no education. And with the age of this group of women (with higher education) are more likely to marry than to be alone (B. Guzzo 2004).
Cost optimization model with partner search was examined by Roshchina YM, and Roshchin SY in  2006. It suggests that more children want to have the individual and greater level of income it, as well as a lower level of education is, the sooner he/she gets married. When planning a long-term marriage, and in the presence of difficulties in the event of divorce, marriages happens at relatively late age.
As a result of their research SY Roshchin and YM Roshchina made inputs that people with secondary vocational education tend to marry earlier than people with higher education. The level of income, health, place of residence, as previously stated, have a direct impact on the age of marriage. Individuals who live in small towns or villages, tend to marry earlier than those who live in metropolitan areas. Healthy people are married before, as well as those who work before finding a partner. On the one hand, the unemployed, and on the other hand, people with very high incomes prefer to enter into marriage later.
Authors H. Fu and N. Goldman (1996) also analyse how the level of health influence the age of marriage. The result showed that the level of health directly affects the age of marriage: healthy individuals enter into marriage earlier than those who have health problems. The authors also examined the presence of harmful habits such as smoking and alcoholism.
Moreover some authors such as D. Wooldridge and R. Shouen believe that married individuals have similar characteristics, namely age, race and education. Exploring this issue, the authors note the slight variations in the theory. For men, higher education is a priority, while women are not ready to receive a bachelor's degree and marry at an earlier age.
The political situation in the country, in its turn, also has a significant impact on marriages. Military call and political conflicts reduce the likelihood of marriages and as a result increase the age at which individuals enter into marriage. In such cases, women are beginning to build a career and get a higher education degree. (M. Bitler and L. Schmidt, 2011).

RESEARCH DESIGN
The quality of the data used for the study database RLMS-HSE «Russian monitoring of the economic situation and public health HSE". full sample for the year 2010-2015 were unloaded. As noted earlier, the factors were selected according to the previous studies, which were examined above.
The final sample was constructed as follows: selected individuals per year who got married this year. Next to these individuals have been added to the data on their answers to the questions in the previous year. Thus, the time lag was taken into account in the sample: the age of the individual analyses of marriage on the basis of his answers for the previous year. As a result of this approach, it becomes possible to test hypotheses. However, this approach to the sampling significantly limits the number of observations. Firstly, a small fraction of individuals (180-250 people in different years) were married or married for each year of the total number of investigated individuals (about 18,430 people). Furthermore, not all individuals  had  present data for different years. 
Thus, the final selection is a cross-sectional data and includes 653 observations. In this case, the use of panel data is not feasible because the individuals who marry, are unique and do not repeat the observations in different years.
Keep in mind that the age of the individual's marriage is regulated by the legislation of the Russian Federation, and is not less than 16 years (Source). However, in this study it was decided to limit the age of marriage to 18 years,   because marriage at younger age is usually a kind of exception than a common practice, therefore, marriage at younger age can be affected by other factors which are not relevant. It is assumed that in the older age considered factors do not have the same influence and the individual, marrying at an older age, guided by other motives, which are not considered in this work. The question is, at what age is it possible to believe that the individual is based on other factors when getting married. In this study, this problem was solved by removing statistical outliers.
Thus, in this study considered the age of marriage is limited to the 18 to 48 years.
According to the descriptive statistics, a representative individual gets married at the age of 28 years, with an average income of 15,261 rubles a month, has a normal weight and with a probability of 54.92% has no health problems. Moreover, with a probability of 61.85% satisfied with his/her life, he/she has career opportunities (probability 76.31%), as well as Orthodox Christians (66.46% probability). As for the gender division, the sample is divided about evenly: 44.15% are men and 55.85% women.
This study used cross-sectional data for analysis, the reason for econometric modeling, it was decided to use a multiple regression model, estimated by the method of least squares (OLS).
(gym, health, lenses, alcohol, smoke, satisfaction, apartment_improvement, job, ethnicity, gender, well_being2, well_being3, residence2, residence3, residence4, education3, atheist, islam, other_religion)
It is necessary to take into account that the dependent variable of this study is censored from the bottom, because an individual can legally marry not earlier than after become 16 years. In this case, as described above, it was decided to consider the individuals entering into marriage at the age of 18 years or older. Because of this  conditions dependent variable is the appropriate use of the Tobit model which is estimated by maximum likelihood.

PREDICTED OUTCOMES
The study results were obtained that allow to draw conclusions about the proposed research. Gender differences have been investigated with respect to the age of marriage. So important was the variable responsible for the sex of the respondent, in accordance with the results of the econometric analysis, on average, men enter into a marriage about a year later than women.
This result is explained by the fact that men according to psychological research, are more interested in building a career, while women, on the contrary, tend to focus on creating a family. Another explanation for this phenomenon is that women are also concerned about the child's birth. According to various medical research fertile age women is limited to 35-49 years of age, while a similar age men is limited only by his or her health status.
Also as a result of the study found that regular use of alcohol results in an average and ceteris paribus marriage a year earlier, compared with individuals who did not drink alcohol. At the same time it observed that smoking contributes to later marriage. Thus, bad habits have different effects on the individual's age at marriage.
Further, the study parameters were considered responsible for the physical shape of the individual. To these factors include the body mass index (BMI) and regular training in the gym. According to the results observed that the increase in body mass index entails a later marriage, while the training lead to an earlier marriage.
The impact of individual income was also analysed on the age of marriage. According to the results of the increase in revenues has though weak, but significant effect on the age of marriage.
This result is explained by the fact that at higher income individuals tend to work harder and therefore have less free time for personal life. However, we must not forget that the impact of this factor is very weak, which suggests that in marriage, this factor is not decisive for the individual.
The theoretical justification is also assumed that the level of education of the individual effect on the age of marriage. According to the study, the presence of special and secondary special education, and higher education has no effect on the individual's age at marriage.

LIMITATIONS OF RESEARCH
One of the limitations of the work is the specificity of the data used. In terms of using the data from RLMS-HSE «Russian monitoring of the economic situation and public health HSE» it is possible to trace only the characteristics of the individuals, while it is obvious that the age of marriage affect not only personal motives and characteristics of an individual, but also the characteristics of a partner with which an individual enters into a marriage.
A limitation of the data is a barrier for resolving the problem of obtaining more precise results of the research.
Expediently in the future is also an account of the presence of the child in the model, evidently that it can be rather relevant factor, but it hasn't taken into account, then it goes to the error of the model and leads to endogenity.
Further development of the work is the decomposition of sample by gender, or the inclusion of dummy variables for different factors, thus, it is assumed that the coefficients of the factors are different for men and for women. However, in this study it is not possible, because there is not enough observations to split the total sample.




