Introduction
In modern conditions the process of promoting goods and services to the target market, where a huge amount of similar products by local rivals and from foreign companies can be found, is extremely expensive, long-lasting and complicated. In order to promote their stuff marketing services nowadays use a sheer number of various methods of marketing communications, for instance, the Internet, different exhibitions, a TV commercial  and so on. So called cold calls or telemarketing is also one of them. Cold calling is a technique where a seller contacts without any warning absolutely random people who may probably want to purchase products or services that the company is selling. Despite the fact that this method is not very effective as marketers using cold calling techniques often end up using resources on people who are not really going to buy their products, it is useful for its possible quick feedbacks from the client. Also there is a great number of other advantages, for example, it is still a good way to widen a client network and it can result in good customer-marketer relationship. The crucial problem is that along with named above benefits this method has a lot of drawbacks. Many customers find cold calls irritating. The main principle of cold callers is to tempt a consumer while he or she still has not hung up. And the vast majority of people think that such conversations are especially fatigable. Sellers would go on with the persistence unless the person on the other line says “yes”. This is not the kind of marketing that gains mutual trust and respect. 
Numerous attempts have been made to give reasons that cold calling technique is effective or non-effective. The current research will focus on such a concept as a customer funnel. It represents the number of customers who are at a certain step of a relationship with a manager. It shows the entire sales cycle from a cold call to the final transaction of selling. It is one of the greatest tools for analyzing the efficiency of work, as it can determine at which step the biggest part of potential customers is eliminated, thus, there is a problem that has to be solved. Hence, the goal of my paper is to determine the efficiency of cold calls in Sberbank with the help of customer tunnel. In order to meet the goal I should calculate the percentage of successful transitions from a first stage of a cold call to the next one and also determine factors which influence these transitions. 
In fact, practically all researches in the problem area have a descriptive analysis; they do not have any particular examples which are based on real numbers. In the current paper different variables will be examined and eventually the work will reveal which of them and to what extent influence the successful transition from a stage of a cold call to the next one. In order to achieve the set goal a logistic regression will be designed. Nowadays Sberbank invests a very large amount of money into sustaining call centers. The outcome of this work will conclude whether or not to increase funding for the development of call centers or switch over to less expensive and modern sales tools.
The paper consists of theoretical background including a brief literature review and the current situation with cold calling. It is followed by the methodology used in order to achieve the main goal, and predicted outcomes. Finally, I will write about limitations of the research which may not allow to get the most accurate results.

Theoretical background 
The cold calling theory has been the subject of numerous economic researchers since the appearance of modern means of communication. Cold calling technique has undergone a lot of changes as knowledge and technologies have improved. Earlier salespeople had a concrete task to sale a product via a call. The guideline was to make as many calls as possible as it meant that more sales would be conducted. Also the key point was to close the sale. However, nowadays it is more like an introduction of available products. Thus, people are less pressured by such calls as there is no particular need to buy offered goods straightaway. The approach advanced by Moro and Cortez (2013) exerted a noticeable impact on theoretical thinking about this question. They created a neural network model in their work which determined that it is not effective to call random people. They pointed out that it is better to learn the background of potential customers. In that case the number of calls may be reduced by a half and it will lead to 80 percent of successful phone conversations. 
By choosing the most potential buyers companies may decrease the expenses and increase the efficiency of cold calls. Vajiramedhin (2014) supported Moro’s and Cortez’s point of view. In his work he analyzed different features of potential customers which could lead to a future sale. Finding information prior making a call is beneficial, it makes a call flow smoothly and amplifies the success rate. His correlation based work shows an improved predictive model which leads to a more accurate prediction of bank telemarketing. 
As the business is being conducted through phone calls, there are essential factors which influence the final outcome. One of them is a way a salesperson speaks to a potential customer. Nowadays buyers are rather incredulous towards salesperson that approaches them. That is why it is extremely important for vendors to break through these defensive barriers and initiate contacts with customers. This topic was studied by many researchers and they showed that the style of speaking is undoubtedly important. For instance, Lundgren (1995) made several experiments to gain information about what style of negotiations do customers prefer: friendly, dominant or neutral. Through empirical observations he found out that if a company sells cheap and not luxurious goods then the highest influence rate will have a dominant style.  Nevertheless, if products are expensive those sellers who have a friendly intonation have a better chance of making a deal. Schurr and Ozanne (1985) came up to practically the same results. They stated the importance of psychological constituent in negotiations. The authors also measured gender affection on sales. But it was shown that the results do not vary much depending on the sex.
A literature review has revealed a great number of publications and the biggest part of those studies are theoretical. They also play a crucial role because it is important to know the main rules and stages of a cold call. For example, the importance of different trainings and special courses was formulated in Lichtenthal, Sikiri and Folk (1989) work. They also showed the significant role of a tenable call script and perfect timing for an effective negotiation. 
According to the review of Russian literature the cold calling technique is relevantly new in our country. While in such countries like USA it appeared at the end of 70s in previous century, the boom of telemarketing in Russia was in early 2000s. This way of business solicitation is not developed enough and still at the primal stage. Not long time has passed since the first call centers emerged. Nowadays this technique is fully used only by huge Russian enterprises and western companies, whereas medium and small-sized businesses mostly use their own unqualified for this type of work staff, which eventually leads to inefficient results. The current situation is beneficial for those companies that have already gained skills as due to the low competition the productivity may reach its peak without much effort. It seems quite impossible for other developed countries because in Russia the market is not yet oversaturated with such calls and consumers are still interested in receiving different offers of goods and services. 
Nowadays the main goal of cold calling is not to sell the product, but to widen the client network and promote the company. That is exactly where the controversial question arises. There are numerous of other means of communication or ways to interact with customer and which are probably less time-consuming and more effective. Thus, the purpose of this paper is to determine the productivity of such technique as a cold calling. 

Methodology
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. It should be noted at the outset that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take a definite shape as the study is progressing. Data from Sberbank of Russia will form the base of empirical data to be used. After the cleaning it is expected to deal with approximately 4000 observations. The study is intended to consider information over the period 2008-2015. Data which have panel nature will allow me to monitor the dynamics over years. The taken period will be enough to make an analysis because the bank has a huge data warehouse that keeps all information not only about its clients, but also about all conducted operations. It will allow to get information on appropriate variables which are needed for my study. The empirical research in the current paper will be set in frames of a logistic regression in order to estimate the probability of a successful transition from a stage of a cold call to the next one. This model will represent the most crucial factors for a fortunate call and factors which lack efficiency. The data will be analyzed with the help of a statistical package EViews. This program will make it possible to produce all procedures necessary for this study.

Predicted outcomes 
By accomplishing the research project it would be extremely interesting to receive information which is hardly presented in media sources and literature – the information concerning major factors which determine the efficiency of a salesperson who conducts cold calls in Sberbank. As it was already stated, the current work will represent the probability of a successful transition from a stage of a cold call to the next one. It is highly expected that the most crucial variables will be the length of a call and the time when calls are made. After the research will be made I will try to offer some ways to increase the efficiency of cold calls.

Limitations of the research
It should be mentioned that the date base has some drawbacks. First of all, there are some factors that may influence the outcome of the call but cannot be measured or the information cannot be collected. For instance, the mood of the potential customer at the time the phone rings or other external circumstances. I only possess data that are somehow possible to size. Secondly, as long as usual years the research includes the period of financial crisis and it may lead to a slight inaccuracy.


