Introduction
According to 2013 Triennial Central Bank survey (BIS, 2013), the FX market is the largest financial market in the world with a daily turnover over $5.3 trillion. High trading volume of transactions and ability to trade continuously for 5 days per week make FX instruments one of the most attractive assets. As consequence, market participants are highly interested in explaining and forecasting exchange rate dynamics. 
In general, all exchange rate models can be classified into three categories – macroeconomic, microeconomic and hybrid models. Macroeconomic models claim that exchange rates are purely determined by fundamental factors such as interest rates, inflation, money supply and etc. However recent empirical tests showed a low quality of such models. The microeconomic approach looks at this problem from a different angle. According to it, there is no need to observe all macroeconomic fundamentals affecting the exchange rate if you can observe market players’ decisions that incorporate all available information. Traditionally, order flow (net buyers-initiated and sellers-initiated orders) is used as a quantitative value that reflects traders’ sentiment. The hybrid approach combines features of both macroeconomic and microeconomic models. 
One key feature of FX market is that it is characterized as over-the-country (OTC) market. As such, the FX market is organized as a two-level market: dealer-dealer and dealer-nondealer markets. Interdealer market is generally accessible only for banks and financial institutions. At this level dealers make transactions between themselves and establish equilibrium exchange rates. In dealer-nondealer markets a dealer provides retail traders the opportunity to access the FX market at a low cost. Dealers continuously quote adjusted exchange rates to customers and receive orders from them. For convenience purposes of viewing the full picture information about orders is aggregated and presented to dealer in form of order flow. 
On the one hand, correlation between exchange rates and order flow helps dealer to trade in interbank level. On the other hand, inventory imbalance (nonzero order flow) presents itself undesirable position to the dealer, since the dealer is exposed to the counter position of the net order flow. The dealer has two options to choose form 1) trade this imbalance to another dealer or 2) bear a risk and hold the position in the opposite direction. By choosing the latter, dealer would require an attractive risk-adjusted return. 
This survey examines how a dealer who chooses to hold the counter part of the net order flow can optimize FX inventory management by studying two key parameters. First one is to find the maximum time horizon at which order flow can successfully predict exchange rates. Second one is to estimate the optimal time frame for the holding the counter part of the net order flow. I conduct a theoretical analysis using a unique data set provided by a large retail FX dealer. The data contains private information about 7 million trades executed by 22 000 traders from 2011 to 2013.  

Theoretical background
An increasing number of studies show that a macro based approach, where only economic fundamentals matter, fails to predict exchange rate movement over medium- and short- term horizons. For example, Cheung et al., (2005) conducted comprehensive analyses, where the most widespread exchange rate models such as purchasing power parity, interest rate parity and others were tested. Their findings showed that, while some models generated reasonable predictions for specific currency pair and time horizon, these models performed poor in general. The failure of a macro approach to predicting price dynamic in foreign exchange market turns the attention of researchers to a micro based approach, where heterogeneity in expectations of market participants plays a key role in asset pricing. In this approach researchers resort to using order flow as a major factor that reflects heterogeneous expectations about future price movements. 
Order flow is defined as sum of the signed buyers-initiated and sellers-initiated orders. Sending an order to a broker can be considered as a trader’s willingness to convert his or her expectations to real money. Order flow only aggregates information about orders over certain period of time and presents a quantitative measurable value of average expectation among traders in form of the net buying pressure. Positive order flow means an excess buying demand generated in a given asset and attests that at average market participants expect a future price increase. Negative order flow means an excess selling demand and attests that at average market participants expect a future price decrease.
A positive relationship between order flow and assets returns was found in almost all markets. For example, Hasbrouck (1991) documented significant correlation between order flow and prices of NYSE listed companies and supposed that the effect is caused by information asymmetry. He also found that the effect is stronger for small companies.  Brandt et al., (2004) discovered the same relationship in bond markets. The authors constructed a model that explains over 26% of daily returns variation. In forex market Evans and Lyons (2002) are generally considered as pioneers of micro approach. The authors investigated the impact of order flow on deutsche mark / dollar and yen / dollar currency pairs and detected that it can capture about 60% and 40% of daily price fluctuations respectively. Order flow explanatory power was further confirmed by almost all subsequent papers, however surveys explored order flow predictive power report ambiguous results. For example, Marsh et al., (2005) found lack of forecast power in examined huge dataset provided by Royal Bank of Scotland. Their further scrutiny led them to conclude that simultaneous changes in order flow and exchange rates are caused only by varied degree of participants’ informativeness. On the other hand, there are several papers claim that order flow is highly informative. Froot et al., (2005) and Bacchetta et al., (2006) state that order flow is a reliable predictor at horizons ranged from 1 minute to 1 year. Outstanding performance also produced a big amount of trading strategies dedicated to it. For example, Rime et al, (2010) created a hybrid model, which incorporates both information about fundamentals and orders. Robustness tests showed that their model systematically outperformed both carry trade and random walk strategies. Similarly, in Menkhoff et al., (2016) survey order flows were divided into long-term investors, short-term investors, commercial corporations and individual investors. According to their results, portfolios based on these separated order flows can generate over 15%, 10%, 0% and -14% annually returns respectively.
Most of order flow surveys used data provided by large commercial banks which contains information about actions of big financial institutions and there is only one survey, to author’s knowledge, that investigated retail investors transaction data obtained from a retail electronic trading platform (Nolte et al., 2016).  The reason for this is that in academic literature retail traders are commonly considered only as pure noise traders (traders, whose decisions are irrational and erratic) (Foucault et al, 2011). Retail traders have a number of key features. First, they are typically less informed and have almost no private information. Second, they have an average trade volume in several times lower than an average trade volume of other large and institutional investors. Third, they are assumed to be profit seekers, which mean that they are exposed to high levels of risk and trade only for speculative reasons. Finally, they are exposed to a number of behavioral biases such as overconfidence, herding and others. Despite the neglecting attitude from academic literature, Nolte and Nolte (2016) found retail traders’ order flow to be highly informative too. They split data about 2000 traders’ transactions into 7 order specific categories (limit, market, stop loss and take profit) and showed that order flow generated by them can successfully predict exchange rates from 1 minute to 20 minute horizon. In addition, out-of-sample testing showed that models systematically outperform white nose model.
To sum up, there are a lot of theoretical and empirical surveys confirm that order flow is being informative about current and future price changes especially in forex market. However, there is a gap in academic literature studied order flow created by retail traders. This gap is caused by rooted neglecting attitude to retail traders as persons who assumed act irrational at average. Nevertheless, in 2013 about 3.5% of daily turnover was generated by retail traders (BIS, 2013). It is a significant sector of forex market. Moreover, there is one survey (Nolte, 2016) confirmed predictive power of retail traders’ order flow. My work will make contribution in this less studied field of academic thought.

Methodology and procedure
Order flow is defined as sum of signed buyers-initiated and sellers-initiated orders for a certain point in time. From technical point of view, it can be estimated in two ways – as net amount of opened trades and as net opened volume.
Net opened trades (NOT):
NOT_t   = amount of opened buy trades_t  – amount of opened sell trades_t
For each t point in time we find all transactions that have open time less than t and close time more than t in a given asset. Then, in case of NOT, we count number of buy trades and subtract from it the counted number of sell trades. In case of NOV, we sum volume of buy trades and subtract from it summed volume of sell trades. The process is repeated with a given time frequency. 
The main problem is that NOT and NOV depend on number and structure of active traders and consequently time series may have inconstant dispersion and violate the condition of stationarity. This problem can be solved by creating two more variables.
For each t point in time we estimate NOT and NOV and divide them by amount of all opened trades and summed volume of all trades respectively. Both NOT and NOV ratios present itself values that varies from -1 to 1. Value of 1 means extreme buying pressure and value of -1 means extreme selling pressure. 
As was mentioned above, this work has two aims: to find maximum time horizon at which order flow can successfully predict exchange rates and to estimate what time frame of holding open position in the opposite to order flow direction is optimal.
The first goal will be accomplished by applying methodology similar to one used in Nolte’s work (Nolte, 2016). The core idea of this approach is in revealing whether order flow model can outperform benchmark in a given time frequency. If it is, then it says that model can successfully predict exchange rates at this time horizon. More detailed description of this methodology is presented below.
In order to get robust results, analysis is conducted on both in-sample and out-of-sample. From the source sample we randomly select subsamples which are further divided into two parts – in-sample and out-of-sample. In-sample part is used for evaluating coefficients of the following order flow and benchmark models:
Order flow model: (1)
Where, 
?y_t – change in exchange rates between t+1 and t points in time. 
B_p^y (L) – lag-polynomials associated with exchange rate changes and specified as . Number of used lags is determined by Schwarz information criteria (SIC)
B_q^x (L) - lag-polynomials associated with order flow and specified as . Number of used lags is determined by Schwarz information criteria (SIC)
x_t^OF – order flow specific variable
?_t   - white noise process 
Benchmark 1 (White noise model): (2)
Where, 
?y_t – change in exchange rates between t+1 and t points in time.
?_t   - white noise process 
Benchmark 2:
(3)
Where, 
?y_t – change in exchange rates between t+1 and t points in time. 
B_p^y (L) – lag-polynomials associated with exchange rate changes and specified as . Number of used lags is determined by Schwarz information criteria (SIC)
?_t   - white noise process 
Out-of-sample part is used for assessing forecasting quality of order flow model that was evaluated on in-sample part (models’ coefficients are assumed to be constant during this period). For this purposes, for each model root-mean-squared-prediction-errors (RMSPE) will be calculated. If order flow model will have lower RMSPE in a given time frequency than benchmarks’ ones, then it can be treated as order flow’s forecasting power. In addition, I provide modified Diebold-Mariano test to see whether difference in forecasts is significant or not. 	
Any time when dealer receives an incoming order he immediately opens position in the opposite direction. After aggregating information about individual orders, order flow (net open volume) with the opposite sign can be considered as final dealer’s position. From a dealer side of view, if order flow is related to future price changes, then nonzero order flow present itself unwillingness effect. A dealer can sell this imbalance to another dealer in interbank market or he can hold position in the opposite to order flow direction. In the latter a dealer bear a risk associated with changes of his profit. It is well-known that retail traders lose money at average, their order flow is negatively related to exchange rates and consequently most of brokers hold the opposite position till traders close the position. If traders’ order flow has only limited predictive power then it means that after this moment holding the opposite position is no longer needed and it can be sold to another dealer. 
In order to prove this idea simulation analyses will be used. This analysis implies modeling what the dealer’s profit will be if he holds the opposite position for a certain period of time and sells it to another dealer. Risk associated with opened position will be measured in standard in finance way – as standard deviation of dealer’s return over the time. To sum up, if upward concave relationship between dealer’s profit and time of holding will be found, then it means that dealer can achieve better Sharpe ratio and consequently better performance.   

Predicted outcomes
The results of this research can be valuable for any person, who has access to the information about retail traders’ order flow. First, it will give the answer on a question does order flow has a predictive power. If it is, then real-time order flow data can be used for creating trading strategies. Second, it will determine a set of time frequencies, where trading strategies are likely to be the most profitable. Finally, it will give the answer on a question does retail forex dealer can improve performance by holding trades only a limited amount of time. 
The most valuable survey in this area done by Nolte and Nolte (2016) claims that retail traders’ order flow indeed has a predictive power and can successfully predict exchange rate changes up to 20 minutes time horizon. I expect to get the similar results and to prove that dealer can achieve better performance. Moreover, results will be more robust than in Nolte work since the survey will be conducted on a larger data set and for 22 currency pairs.  

Limitation of the research
Current research is mainly limited by its own aims. It is focused only on examining retail traders’ order flow. However, there is a big area to explore. For example, model can be improved by adding fundamental factors and constructing hybrid models. Comprehensive analysis of related literature showed that hybrid models have better forecasting quality than both macroeconomic and microeconomic models. Another way to move is to link behavioral biases to order flow and to create derivative variables that can help to better understand the exchange rate dynamics. It is well-known that retail traders suffer from a plenty of behavioral biases such as overconfidence, herding and others. And there are a lot of techniques that help to measure it dynamically. Changing the weights of traders’ contributions to order flow according to the degree of exposure can significantly increase the quality of models. 

