Introduction
It is commonly accepted that in the process of setting price the seller usually dictates his terms and the buyer has no choice but to accept or to reject the offer. Indeed, this approach is appropriate in most situations when the average price of the good on the market is widely known or there is a lack of time to make a proper decision. However, in the case then a brand new product is about to be introduced to the market and the client’s perceptions of the price is unknown, not only the buyer, but also the seller benefits from implementing an unconventional type of price-setting mechanism called Pay What You Want (PWYW). This pricing method allows the buyer to set any price he wants basing on his perceptions.
Decision making related to finances is of significant importance. Usually we handle money in an extremely rational way - trying to minimize our expenses while maximizing utility. Nevertheless, it is proved that under PWYW conditions customers behave irrationally from an economic point of view refusing to pay zero prices for the goods offered (Ju-Young Kim 2, Ayelet Gneezy 3, Riener G 6). The above statement explains mounting interest in practical application of this strategy in real market conditions. A range of efforts to explain irrational decisions of clients was undertaken, though numerous blank spots in this field are to be covered within the frame of the future analysis.
The present paper aims to find out a dependence between the different types of external reference price (ERP) listed by the seller to suggest the level of pricing and the cost paid by the customer within the PWYW mechanism. ERP is increasingly becoming a vital factor in the narrow set of actions the merchant can operate with while designing the PWYW offer.  Speaking about the novelty of the study it is significant to mention that although the influence of the variety of factors have been studied, neither theoretical nor empirical research have been conducted on the examining the effect of this particular indicator in details. In order for the above task to lead to valid results, a series of the following issues are going to be examined at a secondary level:
1) Will the sales under PWYW conditions cover the costs?
2) What other factors have notional impact on price set?
3) Will the PWYW promotion increase the number of clients?
4) Would customers rather choose an offer with listed price or the one with PWYW pricing?
In the following sections theoretical basis of the research, methods of conducting the study, anticipating outcomes and existing limitations will be explained.
     
Theoretical background
This part of the project is meant to examine theoretical approaches regarding Pay What You Want mechanism implementation. Unfortunately, this field of study is not provided by a large body of literature on a subject yet because of its novelty and specificity. That is why the structure of the problem area would be considered in details from different perspectives treating the PWYW mechanism as a marketing method, as a profit-generating strategy and as a psychological approach. Moreover, the potential benefits and restrictions of the PWYW pricing mechanism will also be studied.
When there is a tremendous amount of buyers and sellers in the market, it is essential for business to stand out of the crowd and retain customers’ liability. In this case, pricing strategy can be one of the key points of differentiation from the competitors. Despite the fact, that various types of promotions truly disinterested most of customers, a brand new strategy recently has been discovered. Participative pricing mechanisms, such as Pay What You Want, Inverse Auctions and Name Your Own Price, differ from the traditional pricing methods. By involving clients in price-setting process, sellers can better determine their preferences and willingness to pay. At the same time, there is a potential opportunity to gain higher profits by maximizing the amount of clients served and increasing the average receipt amount. From a client’s point o view, it becomes easier to try new product when one is not obligated to pay a certain price in the beginning and can determine its value after evaluating the quality level.
Much work on the potential of PWYW has been carried out by Ju-Young Kim(1), who define it as a participative pricing mechanism, where customers have full control over the price of the good. Theoretically, they have opportunity to set any price, whatever it is equal to suggested one, several times exceeds it or tends to zero. The merchant in PWYW conditions placed in a discouraging position without any right to influence the price setting process or withdraw the proposed offer. Since the possible price range is unlimited, customer, as an economically rational agent, should maximize one’s purchase utility and take the advantage of the deal paying zero price. However, the existing observations of PWYW mechanism in practice argue with economically rational conclusion and present it as an applicable one for commercial use (Ju-Young Kim 2, Ayelet Gneezy 3, Riener, G 6).
As things stand now, there have been several studies, in which Pay What You Want effects were analyzed on sales, number of clients and profitability. To deepen the understanding of the phenomenon, payment motives of customers were tried to be explained, as not only economic, but also social, psychological and behavioral aspects influence the process of consumer’s price setting (Riener & Traxler, 2012). Gneezy, Nelson, & Brown(3), for example, included charity element by adding sharing social responsibility practices in pricing process, they managed to triple revenues of the sales in that period. This controversial in terms of traditional economic theory customer behavior can be explained via exchange relationships rationale and pro-social theories (Schmidt, Spann and Zeithammer 2014). There has been established several interconnections between willingness to pay and particular variables such as perception of value fairness, client’s income, service quality and the amount of people in the group. Haws and Bearden noticed an increase in perceiving fairness and satisfaction of customers when they participate in the process of setting the price rather then they considering invariable offer.
Despite the fact that Pay What You Want mechanism has been examined in real business conditions, our knowledge of its effectiveness is largely based on very limited data. Nevertheless, recent findings have led to the certain amount of successful cases, showing practical implementation of this pricing strategy. The method has been proved to be applicable both as a short-term promotional tool (e.g., Kim, Natter and Spann 2014) and as a long-term profit generating technique (e.g., Riener and Traxler 2012). Indeed, PWYW can generate considerable interest in terms of marketing application for business. Primarily, it attracts attention of consumers due to novelty of the offer at the same time increasing the probability of sharing such a memorable promotion in this way raising company’s word-of-mouth popularity. In the series of experiments Chandran and Moritz found out that provided control over price can lead to stronger intention for purchasing goods and increased number of clients.
Notwithstanding the favor of implementing the Pay What You Want strategy, it has obvious risks for sellers. In contrast to other participative pricing strategies, PWYW does not have any minimum price level that is why this strategy primarily applied on products with low marginal costs because of the risk to sell it below net cost (Raju and Zhang 2010). The successful outcome of method implementation seems uncertain, as in the pricing process many elements and factors are interconnected and operate in a complex way. For instance, while for ones taking an advantage of setting price motivates them to pay more, others may be reluctant to make a decision on the value themselves. Likewise, Fernando Machado writes: «posting a suggested price could be a double edged sword, because it may lead some consumers to pay less than their own valuation for the product». 
All of the aspects given above must be taken into consideration to elaborate suitable methodology of the PWYW experiment.
     
Methodology
The goal of the research will be achieved by deploying the combination of field study and econometric analysis of the data collected. The general research perspective is quantitive - it will mainly focus on the revenue indicators and the price suggested by the customer. 
Primal data will be captured by field experiment and questionnaire. At the first stage customers will set the price for the good sold under PWYW conditions. Moreover, different types of external reference price will be offered to study its impact on amount paid. It is extremely important to gather information about value via real field experiment because real buyer decision is the most accurate reflection of one’s internal perceptions. Subsequently, clients will be asked to fill in the form to specify their individual characteristics such as gender, income level and age. Simultaneously, the servant in a cafe will fill out the form with another features of the client for instance the number of people in the party and other orders in receipt.
When all the data is collected it must be properly analyzed to make meaningful conclusions. More specifically, individual consumer characteristics respective to each external reference price schemes will be subjected to correlation analysis and then predictions with regard to price-related customer cognitions will be developed. From this perspective, random at the first sight parameter may turn up to have latent interconnections that significantly influence key variable. 
     
Results anticipated
Speaking about the upcoming results of the study it should be noted that at the stage of preparation of the research there is a range of hypotheses, which most perhaps are going to be proved. According to the theory, average price under PWYW pricing conditions should slightly decrease from the posted price, but it shouldn’t converge to zero. At the same time, the number of clients who will order the good should rise making revenues to exceed posted pricing conditions. The most intriguing part refers to the impact of external reference prices on price proposed by customers. It is hard to predict, which type of ERP will encourage consumers to pay higher price and which one will maximize the amount of orders. The conclusions of the study will help to illuminate the impact of various factors on the price-setting decisions.
     
Limitations of the research
Current study has several limitations that may influence the representativeness of the data. The existence of time constraints and the scope of the cafe confine the amount of data collected resulting to some extent in inferiority of the conclusions. To make the inquiry more representational, future researchers should focus on more longitudinal studies to more accurately determine valuable interconnections in data collected. Additionally, the list of variables to examine may miss those which exert the hidden impact on the intentions of the client. From this perspective, future studies on the current topic are therefore require attempts to widen the range of parameters examined at the same time deepening the investigation of internal perceptions and intentions of customers.