Introduction
The present investigation focuses on the analysis of marketing communications and their influence on the company’s brand. Recently, we have witnessed significant changes in the process of launching products on the market. Due to increased competition in many markets and industries, it is no longer sufficient to have qualitative products and services alone. In order to increase sales and organizational profit it is highly important to broadcast the benefits from the use of the product or service to customers in B2B and B2C markets. Today, managers should clearly position the product in the market with relation to the consumer desires, they also have to identify the brand value of a particular organization and be ready to compare it to competitor brands. Moreover, the behavioral attitudes are constantly changing either, therefore, the company that operates in a competitive market, which does not take into account these factors, will not be able to conduct an active communication policy and is doomed to failure.
Marketing communications allow the organization to:
1) provide consumers with reliable and interesting information about the products and services, it is also important to provide accurate information about the sales conditions;
2) convince the customer to buy particular products and services, and to shop in certain places;
3) force consumers to act by drawing their attention to products and services;
4) direct the actions of the consumer, that is to force him or her to use their limited cash resources to the product or the service the firm promotes on the market.
To implement all the objectives above, the enterprise has to create a product, assign it the right price and make it available to the target audience. The company should also communicate with its customers and provide an appropriate feedback.
The research problem lies upon the issue of brand loyalty, when companies face difficulties in finding and retaining their customers. Brand loyalty is a complex organizational characteristic that can be easily distorted, thus, an organization needs effective communication channels that allow making relationship with consumers. It is also important nowadays because of the shift among approaches to brand loyalty and methods of communication. My personal motivation is connected with the peculiarities of the research field, as I am interested in brand loyalty analysis from the social media perspective, which is closely related to the organization that is going to be analyzed.
The aim of the research is the development of an integrated marketing communication plan for a brand. Several objectives have to be analyzed in order to fulfill the aim of the study:
1) to consider the main approaches to marketing and marketing communications;
2) to define the methods of marketing communications analysis in the organization;
3) to assess marketing communications on the organization;
4) to create a communication plan for a brand

Theoretical Background
A considerable amount of valuable work on the analysis of marketing communications has been done to broaden the empirical and theoretical basis within this sphere of knowledge. The fundamental principles of marketing communications management are closely connected with brand loyalty that has been studied by various scientists. Despite the fact that the topic is very popular with scholars, the rate of the marketing communications evolvement is far more faster than the research on this theme. This makes it hard to analyze this issue and related phenomena. I believe this work will be useful to understand the peculiarities of marketing communications in the 21th century, which is of high importance to many organizations in the market. 
The significance of the research question is that in the world where the Internet has become one of the most popular places, and people can make a wide range of activities in it, it is necessary to learn more about both fundamentals and new approaches to marketing communications and brand loyalty. Moreover, this study is supposed to make a practical contribution to the performance of the company under consideration and to increase its brand loyalty. 
Jacoby and Kyner (1973), whose research can be considered as fundamental for this work, state that loyalty is a specific type of response connected with the behavior of a customer and expressed over a period of time through a decision-making process. This loyal behavior is expressed towards a particular good or service and a particular brand. 
Jacoby and Robert (1978) suggest the need in the brand loyalty to be thoroughly managed but not only measured, as this will lead to the more accurate description of decision-making process. They also define the formula of success in brand loyalty management when it is necessary to convince customer to buy goods and services on a recurring basis so that the loyalty can increase and result in better performance and higher profits. Another important remark of these authors is that if a company wants to have a brand with high level of brand loyalty, it must construct the conditions when consumers will have an opportunity to be disloyal towards this brand. This approach can be used as a basic interpretation of brand loyalty because it describes the essence of this construct and its overall managing methods. This traditional approach has a widespread appeal within scientific literature; however, in recent years the issue has attracted a large amount of attention.
The idea of brand loyalty has undergone a profound shift in the end of the 20th century, and today there are two main approaches in this sphere. Firstly, it is the behavioral brand loyalty approach when the decision on making a purchase is considered as a behavioral trait (Nam et al., 2011). This behavior is characterized as repeated and is connected with ether the action of purchase or the intention to make a purchase. Secondly, it is and attitudinal approach that has been described by different scholars, for example, Mellens et al. (1996) and Nam et al. (2011) define it as a psychological construct. It is noticed that during this process the act of repeated purchases may be omitted, however, in comparison with behavioral brand loyalty perspective this approach may be not accurate enough during the process of brand loyalty assessment (Mellens et al.,1996). 
According to Dahlgren (2011) brand loyalty is one of the integral parts in the relationship system between the organization and its customers. Dahlgren states that brand loyalty results in brand trust as the latter can create valuable relationships in the “company-customer” system. The connection between brand loyalty and trust is also analyzed and broadened by Gecti and Zengin (2013), who include “brand affect” in the chain of relationships and divide brand loyalty into two parts that have been described earlier in the paper, i.e. attitudinal loyalty and behavioral loyalty. Multiple bonds of these four constructs with one and another define the presented structure of relations. Moreover, these bonds have specific directions, where brand trust can directly influence brand affect, attitudinal loyalty and behavioral loyalty. However, brand affect, attitudinal loyalty and behavioral loyalty are connected sequentially in this scheme, which can show the process of loyalty creation. 
The methods of brand loyalty creation have changed a lot, Hoffman and Novak (1996) consider main marketing channels that were popular in the end of the 20th century, those are TV, radio and newspapers. Today this trend has another focus connected with the Internet development and social networks popularization. The connection between a customer and an organization is built with regard to Facebook, MySpace and Twitter where one can find the specific target audience, such as teens and young adults (Trusov et al., 2010). The developing influence of creative approaches in social media networks can be expressed in different ways, for axpamle, product demonstrationa and contents (Killian and McManus, 2015; Mangold and Faulds, 2009), and the unique nature of social media allows satisfying the need of diverse consumer groups.
Scholars define a number of problems in implementing marketing communications in the organization. Firstly, it is noted that the concept of marketing communications integration is not unique, although the creation of social media network makes it more complex (Killian and McManus, 2015). It has been revealed that it is important to consider the organizational context while marketing communications implementation, and this issue is the topic for discussion or various authors (Moriarty and Schultz, 2012). The analysis of the academic literature allowed listing the most common barriers to successful marketing communications implementation (Gould et al, 1999; Hall and Wickham, 2008; Duncan and Everett, 1993):
1) failures in organizational structure;
2) culture issues;
3) leadership issues;
4) control issues;
5) decision-making process problems;
6) budgeting issues;
7) lack of organizational knowledge, etc. 
The problems in the aforementioned spheres of the organizational activities may have a great negative influence of the marketing communications implementation, thus, a company has to control these operational dimensions.

Methodology and Procedure
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study. The general research perspective is both qualitative and quantitative as the assessment of effectiveness is based on marketing studies that are aimed at exploring in-depth the behavior of the real and potential customers through a survey (conducting focus groups, in-depth interviews, consumer panels, etc.), the use of expert methods and the analysis of statistics. Qualitative methods are aimed at the study of views, attitudes, opinions and interests of consumers. Such qualitative data is collected in order to learn more about what you cannot measure directly or impossible to observe. However, quantitative methods can be used in order to measure a number of indexes, such return on investment in the context of communications investments. 
I will probably use the in-depth interview method in order to gain information about marketing communications from the managers of the organization. This will allow structuring the official information and then to compare it with the data obtained from the consumers’ questionnaire. The questions of the interview will be connected with the current communication system, the ways of its development and improvement. The method of data analysis in this case will be content-analysis.
The method of questionnaire will be used for getting the panel data about the quality of communications and communications channels from the consumers’ point of view. Probably, the questionnaire will contain Likert scale in order to analyze the data more effectively. 
The statistics analysis is aimed at gaining quantitative information. In this research I will try to obtain this type of data through the metrics in the Instagram and Vkontakte. 
The interpretation of the results will be based on the criteria, aimed at structuring the answers by several categories. This will allow comparing the two types of data – internal and external – and to make conclusions about the specifics of the marketing communication in the organization. The results will be used as the basis to the integrated marketing communication plan development.

Predicted Outcomes
This part of the proposal will report on the results that are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. It its proposed that the main source of marketing communication in the organization is the Internet. Thus, it is also expected that the company uses the Internet advertising and promotion techniques rather than traditional methods, such as TV- and radio advertising or commercials in newspapers because of the organizational specifics. Finally, it is anticipated that the number of communication channels of an individual with the organization directly correlates with the brand loyalty, that is, the more channels, the higher the level of brand loyalty.

Limitations of Research
In the final part of the proposal, the research limitations are going to be discussed. Firstly, the main limitation of the investigation is the access to the firm’s internal information about marketing communications that are used by the organization. Another limitation is the specifics of the organization which both makes is relatively unique and complicates the comparison process with other organizations of this type, as there are only a few ones in the Perm market.
The delimitation is that I will not use questionnaires of employees to obtain the appropriate date as there are only several employees in the organization and this method will only complicate the research.

