Introduction
Nowadays firms pay attention to understanding patterns of consumer behaviour. A huge part of questions in this field belongs to the customer relationship management (CRM) area. A sophisticated item on the agenda is the improvement of customer retention schemes. An increasing amount of publications in this sphere signifies the expanded role of customer-centric approach used by firms for establishing long-term relations with their clients. These relationships are necessary if a company wants to raise customer lifetime value (CLV). Moreover, it is also a fruitful up-to-date way of achieving profit growth. The definition of the crucial term reads as follows: CLV is a calculation of how much profit a business could make from one customer over the whole period that they remain a customer. The main aim of the study is to find the way of growing customer lifetime value. 
There are different ways of customer retention but they have a common purpose of keeping consumers in an active state in a customer base. At this point of time I will name this one of two possible states as being “alive”. The opposite one is a status of being “dead”. By “death” the author means that a person does not make purchases for a long time. It is a matter of principle how to reveal in which state a customer is being now and I will try to cope with it. 
The research question relates to estimation when the best time for customer retention campaigns is and what groups of people should experience it. It could not be settled without meeting the following tasks. Firstly, the overall analysis of customer base is necessary to understand its homogeneity extent. Secondly, the economic and econometrical models should be formulated. The urgency of the problem speaks for itself. Notwithstanding the big variety of theories has already been developed by scholars and managers firms still seek for the best algorithm to follow. A widely spread method of cut-and-try becomes more and more expensive for a company’s budget as the time passes.
Unfortunately, there is no consensus on the choice of the most appropriate model for solving the issue. The author will concentrate on a probabilistic BG/NBD model which uses beta-geometric and negative binomial distributions as could be noticed from the abbreviation. This model has been chosen because it gives a straight answer to the first part of the stated question. To make the decision about groups for a marketing action data analysis, particularly, graph analysis of purchasing history is needed. Moreover, I expect that only math calculations and economic interpretation of them are not sufficient to cope with the task. That is why an experiment based on advices inferred from both approaches (BG/NBD model and analysis of graphs) is planned. Probably, the methodology will slightly change in the shape as the research is progressing because people behaviour is a difficult object for identification. 
By and large, the proposed results of the study could be easily implemented and also have significance in theoretical sense as they show whether the chosen method is effective or not. I strongly believe that the gained knowledge will throw light upon how to make customers regular.
My work consists of five parts. Crucial preliminary information of the area is stated in introduction. Theoretical background provides literature review of studies correlated with the research question. Methodology and procedure section describes the approach and the dataset. Predicted outcomes and limitations of research parts are dedicated to overall results of the study.

Theoretical Background
I will continue to develop the research proposal by showing literature review and emphasizing on key works. Numerous attempts have been made to establish trends in customer behaviour. The author concentrates on studies related to firm’s communication with clients that increase CLV. Particularly, the focus is on customer retention approaches because they give the advice how to build long-run relationships with customers. Their list consists of five categories: probit or logit (Rust & Zahorik, 1993), hazard (Lewis, 2006), probability (Fader, Hardie, & Lee, 2005), Markov (Pfeifer & Carraway, 2000) and computer science models (Neslin, Gupta, Kamakura, Lu, & Mason, 2006). 
The choice of the approach depends on settings in which business exists and opportunities for transactions. The current case is described by noncontractual settings and continuous purchases (Schmittlein, Morrison, & Colombo, 1987). This relationship type is characterized by repeat-buying behaviour and the absence of a binding agreement (Fader & Hardie, 2009). This fact considerably narrows the amount of appropriate models because a little part of them can demonstrate satisfied results in these conditions. However, only probability models could be applied to answer the research question and do not ask for customer state knowledge. Moreover, scientists believe this category to have helped to overcome the lack of data.
Let me focus on BG/NBD model as it is an extremely wide-spread tool in modern studies. Fader, Hardie and Lee (2005) were the first who developed this model as the alternative to the existed Pareto/NBD that had been offered by Schmittlein, Morrison, and Colombo (1987). The difference between them is in used distributions for dropouts modelling and in computational difficulties which BG/NBD avoids. They implement it to the study of CD purchasing at the online retailer CDNOW. It is shown that this model gives expected numbers of transactions and probabilities of them that are approximately equal to the actual figures. The brilliant results have encouraged other scholars to test BG/NBD model. Batislam, Denizel, and Filiztekin (2007) have modified BG/NBD model by inclusion the condition about uncertainty in customer state at zero time. In other words, clients may refuse to make a purchase initially. The authors name it MBG/NBD model. The scientists calibrate Pareto/NBD, BG/NBD and MBG/NBD models using grocery retail transaction data and confirm that they bring close valid results again. The first ones could also be complicated in other directions by incorporating marketing activity, demographics (Fader & Hardie, 2009) and other factors. These procedures should be done carefully. They could cause some econometric issues, for instance, sample selection bias or endogeneity bias (Shugan, 2004). All in all, BG/NBD model seems to be the most attractive due to its simplicity and validity.
The current research is worth pursuing because there is still a limited amount of works concerning the area. Furthermore, the research question has not been viewed in such a form. The majority of studies covers only one part of it. In addition, nobody operates the collected data using the chosen model. 
It is essential for business to know who and when it should make a special offer. Nowadays most entrepreneurs define marketing strategy based on rules-of-thumb. As a consequence, they lose a huge sum of money. The study intends to stop this inefficiency in financial recourse allocation.

Methodology and Procedure 
A great range of instruments has already been developed by researchers that are interested in the field. Obviously, not all of them are appropriate for gaining the stated aim due to some sample features. It could easily be shown by analyzing the data available for the research. 
The basic data are provided by a Perm bookshop. Even though the store is concentrated on selling book items it also supplies stationery, coffee, products for children, postcards and other products. Moreover, I should highlight that the books mostly could be characterized as self-helped literature. The store’s database contains information about all the purchases were made by unincorporated clients in the period from August 2013 to May 2016. Within the CRM framework notes associated with loyalty cards represent the highest value because they show purchasing history. All in all, the dataset numbers 1063 hosts. I have one minor criticism on this subject. It should be kept in mind that a card may not belong to only one person. I mean the whole household could capitalize on its benefits. In spite of the fact this point will not be a challenge for the investigation. In addition, the data have a panel structure and are daily specified. Possibly, aggregated weekly data will be also used as in many papers in the sphere.
Common practice of running empirical research gives a practical clue to start with data analysis. To begin with, 2013 year seems to be excluded from consideration as exactly at this time the business was launched into the market and various unobserved factors did have a role to play. As a result, the time period shortens to two and a half years. The finding should be taken into account when cohort analysis starts. This method assumes that a researcher should choose only customers who make the first purchase in a store in approximately one period of time. The procedure partially helps to eliminate external action, for instance, sophisticated economic conditions in the region as a whole, firm’s development stage and others. To clarify a unit of observation it is worth to describe it as follows: loyalty card’s holder i at the time t.
After these preparations the desired model of forecasting customer churn could be calculated. Probabilistic BG/NBD model is chosen from the variety of approaches because it could directly answer the research question. In addition, the number of observations available is not large enough to introduce a premise of a normal distribution that is necessary for many well-known models. However, the graphical analysis in terms of purchase recency and duration, profitability and margins can also help to understand what group of people needs not to be treated with marketing tools. The reasons for it may be that they stay “alive” anyway or are not significant in terms of cash flows.
The anticipated results could be interpreted in two ways as the issue consists of two parts. To determine individual time of “death” some threshold is necessary for probabilities that are gained from the BG/NBD model. It could be done with expert help or by experimenting with different levels. The proposed audience for marketing action is revealed through both the named model and graph analysis. These methods should be used in complex because they could give incorrect results separately. Let me illustrate this point on a simple example. When the BG/NBD model gives extremely low individual probability the first thought is that this customer should meet a marketing campaign. This logic does not take into consideration that not every customer is worth to be retained. The signal that a client is not highly valuable for a firm is when duration figure exceeds recency number, profitability and margins taken from products consumed by a client show low level simultaneously. Consequently, if resources for the campaign are extremely limited, a company could exclude them from participation in it. 
To sum up, the research design involves two methods that will serve the purposes of the present inquiry. This mixture along with clear results of accurate “death” time prediction should bring detailed customer evaluation in terms of key economic indexes in CRM. 

Predicted Outcomes 
The most appropriate individual time and the customer groups for marketing actions are the study results. They could be implemented in marketing campaigns practice in order to prevent churn as outcomes. Practitioners will benefit from understanding when and for whom they should organize marketing campaigns to avoid customer attrition and increase customer lifetime value. I should notify in advance that the outcomes should be expanded carefully on other customer bases.  

Limitations of Research
This part of the proposal focuses attention on the limitations that naturally exist. One of them relates to the difficulties associated with determining “dead” clients. Literature review shows the majority of approaches for solving the problem require this information. Although the chosen methods can work without it the question who are “dead” and who are “alive” customers will arise in any case at the stage of practical recommendation for entrepreneurs. Partially, the issue will be solved by calling experts in the sphere who can give evaluations. Correspondingly, the validity of model will highly depend on them and this dependence from subjective standpoints seems to be a weak place of the research. 
The second limit arises from a poor set of customer descriptors available; the most part of information is about purchasing behaviour and the store’s products. Forecasts on the individual level may suffer from some shocks due to this data feature. But I should end on optimistic note, the limitations are rationally founded and are imposed in order to simplify the modelling process. Despite all the downsides the study is worth to be carried on.
