Introduction
There is currently the growing interest in dissecting empirically determined anomalies of the stock markets and including them into the asset pricing models. However, it is necessary to understand the meaning of the word “anomaly”. In finance, it is an abnormal return that may be predicted. By the “abnormal return” I mean the difference between the actual return of an asset and the return, predicted by the asset pricing model. The existence of anomalies can be interpreted in two ways:
* If the model used is right anomalies are the evidence of market inefficiency which means that the rationality of investors is arguable and asset prices do not “fully reflect all available information” (Fama, 1970, p. 383).
* The model used is shortcoming and there is a possibility, that market is still efficient.
Despite of this joint hypothesis the evidence of anomalies may shed the light on the behavior of asset prices.
Since first papers about anomalies became available researchers divided into two camps: the supporters of behavioral finance and the supporters of fundamental approach. In the context of behaviorism irrational investors receive the information in the wrong way and asset prices deviate from their fair value. In this paper I follow the opponents of this idea and look at anomaly variables as at proxies for sensitivity to risk factors which are not captured by factors of the model used.
Although the majority of dissecting anomaly studies is made in the US stock market, the question about peculiarities of anomalies in the Russian stock market remains open. Numerous attempts have been made to provide a broader empirical basis for the addressing the question above. However, these studies differ in methods used, as well as the kinds of anomalies they check.
The goal of this research is to dissect the anomalies of the Russian stock market. There are some additional issues connected with the goal set. They are the following:
a) variables are to be checked as anomalies
b) method of identifying anomalies is to use
I am dissecting the most popular anomalies, which are considered to be essential: size, value, profitability, past sales growth, book to market ratio, dividends, past returns.
There are two common ways for identifying anomalies: sorts of returns on anomaly variables and Fama and MacBeth (1973) regressions (henceforth FM regressions) with anomaly variables used as explanatory ones. In this paper I follow Fama, French (2008) and use both methods.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. The discussion of the main empirical and theoretical works is presented in the theoretical background section. It is followed by a description of the data and methods used to identify anomalies. The brief overview of predicted outcomes and limitations of research is presented further.

Theoretical background
In the present literature review I will examine both the anomaly studies of the US and Russian market. This approach makes it possible to cover the history of anomaly studies, common methods used and the main results obtained for the Russian stock market.
The actual history of anomaly studies can be paralleled by attempts to verify the validity of Sharpe (1964), Lintner (1965), Treynor (1961) mean-variance capital asset pricing model (SLT CAPM). In spite of a good theoretical explanation of this model, empirical tests show that there are some strategies built on the selection of assets with some characteristics returns of which cannot be explained by SLT CAPM or the Black (1972) version of CAPM (Black CAPM).
It should be noted at the outset that I present the list of only the most popular empirically determined anomaly variables. Basu (1977) finds that returns of portfolios with low price to earnings (P/E) ratio, on average, earn higher risk- and tax-adjusted returns than portfolios with high P/E ratio. The size effect has been founded by Banz (1981). Firms with low market value have significantly larger risk-adjusted returns than large firms do. Firms with a high book to market equity (BE/ME) ratio have significantly higher returns than it is predicted (Rosenberg, Reid, Lanstein, 1985). DeBondt, Thaler (1985) show the return reversal anomaly or winners-losers overreaction effect. Portfolios of prior long-term losers (assets which have had low returns during the last 3-5 years before the portfolio formation date) seem to outperform portfolios of prior winners if to hold them for 3-5 years after formation. Contrarian effect (momentum) is obtained by Jegadeesh, Titman (1993), who show that the strategy based on buying short-term past winners and selling short-term past losers earned positive abnormal returns if to hold them 3-12 months after formation.
In order to capture these various average return anomalies, a number of multifactor models have emerged in the literature. The most known of them are three-factor model of Fama, French (1993, 1996) (3FF), four-factor model of Carhart (1997), five-factor model of Fama, French (2015) (5FF). In general, they are withdrawn on the basis of data observations and include additional factors in the SLT CAPM model, which are associated with anomaly variables in varying degrees. For example, two additional factors in 3FF reflect the better performance of stocks with small market value and high BE/ME ratio. Although, not all anomalies are explained by multifactor equations, in mainstream theory they are considered to be the asset pricing models.
The process of multifactor models formation is based on the detailed analysis of determined anomaly variables (Fama, French, 1992, 1993, 2008, 2015). I consider the approach advanced by Fama, French (2008) to be common for dissecting anomalies in financial literature. Firstly, they examine the average abnormal returns (intercepts from 3FF) of equally-weighted and value-weighted portfolios from separate sorts of three size groups (microcaps, small and big) on each anomaly variable. Secondly, they estimate FM cross-section regressions for each size group and use statistic testing of Gibbons, Ross, Shanken (1989) (GRS), which checks whether the intercept estimates are zero. FM regressions include all anomaly variables. Finally, they sort residuals of regressions on each explanatory variable to examine the variation of average returns “across the spectrum of an anomaly variable” (Fama, French, 2008, 1654).
A considerable amount of valuable work on anomalies has been done to provide a solid ground for understanding the asset prices behavior in the US market. However, the knowledge of asset prices behavior in the Russian stock market is quite limited.
It is impossible to overestimate Teplova’s contribution which sheds a light on the understanding of the assets price formation and anomalies in the Russian stock market. Halperin, Teplova (2012) show that investment into stocks with a high dividend to price (D/P) ratio (the strategy “Dogs of the Dow”), high dividend growth rates, high dividend and net profit rates do not provide positive abnormal returns with SLT CAPM used as the asset pricing model. However, this result is questioned because the performance of the strategies is checked within a short eight year period. Teplova, Mikova (2014) find short-term momentum (the period of analysis and holding – 3-6 months) and middle-term reversal effects (9-12 months) in the Russian stock market. Taking into consideration size, liquidity and trading activity, momentum is not found for stocks with low levels of these parameters and it becomes middle-term (9-6 and 9-12 months) for stocks with high size and trading activity (Teplova, Mikova, 2014).
It should be noted that the approaches used in these papers are not entirely clear. For example, Teplova, Mikova (2014) in order to prove the existence of the momentum effect show the significance of the excess return (the difference between the return of momentum portfolio and risk-free rate). This means that no risk premiums for return of assets are considered.
Since I am limited in space the literature will be stopped here. Works of the scholars mentioned here and some others will be adequately described in my thesis. To summarize this part of the research proposal, anomaly studies of the Russian stock market are not unified and use methods differ from the common approach.
Methodology and procedure
This part of the research proposal gives special emphasis to the overview of approach which is going to be used. In my research I am dissecting the most popular anomaly variables (size, value, profitability, past sales growth, book to market ratio, dividends, past returns) in the Russian stock market following Fama, French (2008, 2015) approach. Since the Russian stock market has some peculiarities (low liquidity, a small number of stocks) some corrections will be made.
In order to provide empirical tests I will collect the data about all common stocks listed in the Russian stock market from 2001 to 2015. The information about each stock will consist of market capitalization, book and market equity, sales, assets, equity income, daily stock prices, dividends and the volume of trade. I also need the risk-free rates of the government bond. The data needed will be collected from a number of resources: the Thomson Reuters Eikon database, financial reports of firms, web site www.finam.ru.
On the first stage I will exclude stocks with a low liquidity ratio of Amihud (2002) (daily absolute return divided by daily volume of trade) because they cause limitations on buying and selling assets in portfolios when they are formed.
The second stage is the formation of equally-weighted and value-weighted portfolios from separate sorts of three size groups on three groups of each anomaly variable (3-3 sorts) for each year. 20th and 50th percentile will be used as breakpoints for size and 33rd and 66th – for anomaly variables. I am going to use 3-3 size-anomaly sorts in order to avoid the small number of stock in each portfolio. I will hold all portfolios except momentum and reversal during the year. The holding period of momentum and reversal portfolios will be 3-6 and 9-12 months. Abnormal returns are going to be calculated from SLT CAPM, Downside CAPM (DCAPM) of Estrada (2000), 3FF, four-factor model, SLT CAPM with adding different risk measures (standard deviation, excess kurtosis, asymmetry).
On the third stage I am going to use FM regressions for each size group. The equations will contain asset pricing models used and all anomaly variables. I will use GRS test in order to check whether the excess return is fully explained by the models with anomaly variables used.
The results, obtained from the second stage will make it possible to understand how the returns are varying across the groups with different levels of anomaly variable. I will use the estimations of FM regressions in order to examine the marginal effect caused by each anomaly variable.

Predicted outcomes
The following part of the research proposal is organized to report on the results which are likely to be obtained with methods are going to be used.
I will be able to create a rich picture of anomalies in the Russian stock market. This research will be the first dissecting anomalies study in the Russian stock market with using the common in finance approach.
The existence of different anomalies will be shown across three size groups of common stocks. Direct estimates of the marginal effect of each anomaly variable will be obtained. It is predicted that some anomalies (for instance profitability, dividend, value) will be found not across all size groups.
I intend to make a prediction about the nature of anomalies and make an advice on which model is better to use for asset pricing in the Russian stock market. However, some limitations could take place.

Limitations of research
All possible limitations of this research connect with the empirical data and its collection. Firstly, the Thomson Reuters Eikon database may have some gaps in the data. In this case I will have to use financial reports of firms in order to collect all the data I need. Secondly, the number of assets in portfolios could be small because of the low general liquidity of stocks in the Russian market. This problem can most effectively be handled by using 2-2 size-anomaly variables sorts. Finally, it could be impossible to use double sorts because some size-anomaly variable groups may be zero. In particular, firms in some size groups could not have dividends. It will limit the examination of excess return variation across the groups with different levels of anomaly variable. Unfortunately, this can not be delimited.