Introduction
It is well-known that company's success is defined by its leader that is the CEO. His personal traits such as optimism, education, self-confidence, willingness to take risks, tenure, gender and many others play a significant role in decision-making process. They help a good CEO define company policies, so these traits somehow affect firm’s success in the future.
For a long time the question of CEO behavior has been tied up with the classic economic theory which supposed that a person should be rational. Adam Smith, being one of the most famous economists, managed to explain how a rational individual usually made a choice based on demand for increasing the finance indicators. CEOs may be rational too, choosing a policy in order to improve company performance. 
However, over a considerable period of time rationality no longer seems to be the key feature that defines the Chief Executive Officer’s decision-making process. Modern studies indicate that policies approved by CEO may lead to resource misallocation and ambiguous financial statements in the company. Consequently CEO is not rational anymore, and this trait takes a back seat to other factors that identify his behavior.
One of these policies may be an innovation policy which includes searching for new opportunities and using them in production. It leads to a creating a new product and changes in current production technology. For any company, innovation is a kind of the engine to the future, because over time some technologies become obsolete and consumer interests start to differ greatly, so a need in modernization and adjustment to demand arises.
When a CEO is rational, he properly conducts innovation costs, which leads to an increase in sales and profits. This, in turn, sustains company’s competitive advantage. Nevertheless, rationality is no longer the main trait that determines Chief Executive Officer behavior, therefore innovation costs are thought to be conducted irrationally.
The firm ownership structure (family or non-family) has been considered as one of the most significant determinants of R&D spending. Some authors believed that in family firms, where a CEO pursued policies under the pressure of the Board of Directors, innovation costs were connected with improving an existing technology. Meanwhile others said that R&D spending in family firms did not take place because of high risk aversion.
As for non-family enterprises, researchers have found out that CEO behavior depends solely on his personal traits, and the Board is mostly independent and does not put much pressure in decision-making process (that is Board Independence). Some authors simultaneously compared both ownership structures.
Many researchers have been examining this topic, focusing either on one trait or considering several at once. European countries basically were excluded from the general sample, but some scholars have noticed later that in these countries the cult could be developed as well.
In my work the central goal is to identify CEO traits, which have an impact on the way he makes decisions on innovation policy in companies with different ownership structures.
In order to achieve the goal, several steps should be taken. First, the analysis of the relevant literature about innovation behavior in family and non-family firms. Next is collecting the data on European companies and making a model that links ownership structure and R&D investment. If the variable is not significant, therefore, a family control does not influence CEO behavior. However, in other case the next model would be made, including the Chief characteristics, which are relevant only in family firms and find out which ones are important. Finally, there would be an analysis of empirical results, possible implication and limitations of the research.
The work is divided into several sections. The first consists of hypotheses and then explanation of chosen variables. The next part includes empirical analysis, and the last section is connected with the review of obtained results, their implication in practice and limitations of the study.
    
Theoretical background
The influence of various CEO characteristics on innovation policy in family and non-family companies presents a great interest to many researchers.
Firstly it should be pointed out what a family (and non-family) firm is. There are many different methods to identify a family firm.  For example, Munoz-Bullon and Sanchez-Bueno (Munoz-Bullon, Sanchez-Bueno, 2011) put two conditions for family business - firstly, two or more Board members are relatives, and secondly, at least 10% of the equity ownership belongs to members of one family, Kraiczy, Hack and Kellermanns (Kraiczy, Hack, Kellermanns, 2014) marked out at least 25% of shareholding. Classen, Carree, Van Gils and Peters (Classen, Carree, Van Gils, Peters, 2013) suggested that there should be at least the 50% of company’s shares. Conversely, in non-family firms shares are owned by different people who have a limited liability and cannot influence the decisions, despite the fact that they may be (members of one family).
Notwithstanding that in non-family firms irrationality takes place, it is often associated solely with CEO personal traits, while in family counterparts there are other factors that determine the Officer behavior (including the Board of Directors).
According to McConaughy (McConaughy, 2000), family companies are believed to have well-defined management structure and strict monitoring, thus precluding the probability of moral hazard occurrence. Family CEOs are taught to aim for long-term vision, time horizon and investments, meanwhile non-family CEOs are flexible in decisions and can easily adjust to changing conditions (McConaughy, 2000).
Some researchers observed CEO’s appointment depending on the candidate’s gender. It turned out that in both family and non-family companies the preference for male employees takes place, regardless of females’ higher education and experience due to idea of patrimony to male successor. However, the authors suggest that their study was limited by the sample, especially when it came to family companies, and the results may be distorted (percentage ratio) (Ahrens, Landmann, Woywode 2015).
Chrisman and Patel (Chrisman, Patel, 2012) are known for their work on risk-taking. They defined it as a factor of innovation policy in family companies. Descendant-controlled (or family) firms are thought to be conservative, in other words, they avoid undertaking the investment in Research and Development, partly due to a misunderstanding between the generations.  It happens when the CEO is proactive and ready for the technology adoption; nevertheless, he is forced to abandon this idea due to conflict of interest with relatives. Besides, risk-averse behavior may be connected with family-owned companies being focused on long-term survival. On the contrary non-family firms are not afraid to take risks and decelerate R&D spending, because a CEO is flexible and does not feel much pressure from the Board of Directors (Craig, Pohjola, Kraus, Jensen, 2014).
In recent years, a considerable amount of work has been done to link CEO personal traits and his decisions on innovation policy (that is R&D investments).
Chen Hsui-Ching Ho and Hsu (Chen, Hsui-Ching Ho, Hsu, 2013), as well as Andries and Czarnitzki (Andries, Czarnitzki, 2014) and Daellenbach, McCarthy and Shnoeneker (Daellenbach, McCarthy, Schoenecker, 1999) have found out a negative connection between R&D efficiency and such trait as higher education (doctor’s and master’s degree). 
In family companies CEO was rather young and forced to follow the Board’s advice, he still had to know more details about the company, its resource endowment and production. As a result, CEO underestimated risk and misinterpreted forecast (Andries, Czarnitzki, 2014).
However, the connection between R&D intensity and CEO education was positive as well. This meant that a CEO was capable of acquiring requisite knowledge and analyzing information about market trends more accurately (Chen, Hsui-Ching Ho, Hsu, 2013). Besides, he was technically informed and oriented, which allowed him to distinguish a good R&D project (Daellenbach, McCarthy, Schoenecker, 1999). 
Following Muller and Philippon (Mueller, Philippon, 2011), Block (Block, 2012) and later Lodh, Nandy and Chen (Lodh, Nandy, Chen, 2014) the influence of family ownership on innovation productivity was positive. Nevertheless, the latest study had a limitation connected with possible omitted variables that impact indirectly on the main and control ones. Another restriction was linked to a finding distortion due to a large number of descendant-controlled (family) businesses along with the lack of information about the Board’s influence. However, the authors pointed out that these results depended on the country (India was analyzed in their case) (Lodh, Nandy, Chen, 2014).
The Board of Directors in family firms includes older generations that aim for long-term survival, loss and risk aversion, prefers to appoint young and inexperienced family members instead of hiring professionally qualified outsiders (which is called nepotism), and this choice influences risk management and stewardship over resources. Therefore The Chief is compelled to be prudent with risky strategies (Chen, Hsu, 2009).
One of family firm competitive advantage is that relatives are expected to reach an agreement for many policies including innovation and strategies much quicker than in non-family counterparts as they use a unique family language, which allows members to share core information with each other (collective orientation and high-trust climate) and work more efficiently. That is why, the family companies exercise favoritism and nepotism. This leads to incorrect human resources management, alongside with dissatisfied non-family employees, who do not have incentives to work more efficiently (Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno, Cassia, 2015).
A common feature for descendant-controlled and non-family businesses is the fact that the longer tenure is, the more CEO curtails R&D intensity. It is well-known that older people are risk and loss averse, especially if they hold senior executive position, consequently they prefer invest in innovation as less as possible or not to invest at all  (Boling, Pieper, Covin, 2015).
Apart from similarities, there are differences between family and non-family companies.  Some authors point out that small- and medium-sized descendant-controlled (or family) companies were able to invest more in innovative projects; consequently, the spending had to be greater than in non-family firms. Classen, Carree, Van Gils and Peters (Classen, Carree, Van Gils, Peters, 2013) confirmed the assumption partly, stating that family firms, that have higher propensity and resources for innovation invest less intensively that non-family counterparts, partially because of conservative CEOs or their age and the pressure from the relatives at the Board of Directors. However, the authors admit that they have not paid much attention to interaction between CEOs and the Board (Classen, Carree, Van Gils, Peters, 2013).
March (March, 1991) is known for his work on innovation behavior in family and non-family firms. He measured risk-taking through distinguishing between such concepts as incremental and radical innovations. The first were based on exploiting existing capabilities and searching for potential improvements within a company (for example, technological improvements), while the second were fed upon exploring other opportunities outside and could include creating new product or capturing a market share (March, 1991).
Nieto, Santamaria and Fernandez (Nieto, Santamaria, Fernandez, 2015) rested their work on March’s approach and found out that family businesses are more inclined to be of incremental type, due to conservatism, parsimony and risk aversion. However, authors supposed that family firms could deviate towards radical innovations and collaboration could be a great example for it, but it was quite rare. Meanwhile, non-family companies may invest in both incremental and radical innovations, nonetheless the second was a bit more preferable (Nieto, Santamaria, Fernandez, 2015). 
Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno and Cassia (Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno, Cassia, 2015) disagreed with Nieto, Santamaria and Fernandez  and instead suggested that it were descendant-controlled (family)  companies to tend to cooperate more than non-family counterparts, because of cost reduction, as well as sharing  information at each stage of creating a product. In their research family firms were more inclined to radical innovations while non-family ones preferred incremental policies (Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno, Cassia, 2015). Authors explained that family firms in observed data entered into alliances and faced asymmetric information and became afraid of new tie-ups. A limitation in their work was lack of information on companies. Since the collecting data method was questionnaire, authors got very few respondent responses, which could influence the results (Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno, Cassia, 2015).
Family enterprises, according to some researchers, are not prone to collaborate (cooperation), especially when it comes to technologies. This is due to the fact that in the case of collaboration agreement it is necessary to share core information. Even though technological cooperation (which means exchanging details about innovation process) lessens costs in exploring new opportunities, it can be a reason for asymmetric information. What is more, family companies are thought to be conservative and afraid of inaccurate knowledge spillover. As a consequence of this, they are not ready for such sharing. On the other hand, non-family companies are prone to enter into alliance and collaborate (Nieto, Santamaria, Fernandez, 2015).
Nevertheless, approaches, offered by many researchers, still have significant restrictions. After analyzing the previous studies, it was noticed that the authors basically considered Eastern Companies (Taiwan, India, etc.), without taking into account European ones (Lodh, Nandy, Chen, 2014). Also samples included small-, medium- and large-sized companies and researchers admitted that it could be better to use only small and medium sized ones (Chrisman, Patel, 2012) as their number is prevalent, especially in European countries (Classen, Carree, Van Gils, Peters, 2013).
Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno and Cassia (Massis, Frattini, Pizzurno, Cassia, 2015) used a questionnaire to collect information, and responses either were not received, or were not filled completely, so the sample eventually narrowed to very small size and it is well-known that such sample could lead to inaccurate findings. 
Since I am limited in space the literature review will be stopped here. It is necessary to mention Block, Chen and Hsu, Classen, Carree, Van Gils and Peters, Munoz-Bullon and Sanchez-Bueno, Nieto and Fern?ndez as the authors whose contribution in the field of innovation behavior cannot be exaggerated. Their works will form the foundation for the future research as they considered the innovation process in both ownership types, comparing them. That might lead to unambiguous findings of CEO personal traits.

Methodology
This part of the proposal explains the methods that will be used in carrying out the study. The research methodology is based on the quantitative analysis, i.e. examining measurable data such as research and development spending. Firstly, it is significant to describe the data analyzed. The project includes the data from the European companies’ corporate governance framework collected by the International Laboratory of intangible assets’ economics with the author’s personal participation. The proposal is intended to consider more than 1400 European companies over the period 2010-2013. So the data has a panel nature – many firms over 4 years that do not include the crisis. The companies are divided into family and non-family. Information about R&D spending was found in official annual reports as well as financial control variables, for example sales, long-term debt, leverage and liquidity. When it comes to CEO and his own characteristics, such as age, tenure or education, they were found on firms web sites. 
There will be two non-linear econometric models with fixed effects. The first will be connected with impact of a firm having family control on R&D intensity and if it really takes place, no matter what kind – positive or negative, then there will be the second model, which takes into consideration family CEO characteristics and R&D ratio.

Predicted Outcomes
Speaking about the future results, it should be stated that at this stage of the project proposal there is a number of hypotheses that are probably going to be proved. These hypotheses are related to the influence of a various characteristics, such as education (doctor’s and master's degree), gender, marital status, ability to cooperate, risk-taking, age and tenure on innovation costs (R&D productivity or R&D spending). In addition to these hypotheses there will be put forward the one connected with the presence of family control.
In my opinion, gender and risk-taking would have a substantial influence. Age and tenure should correlate with each other, and if the relationship is rather strong, instead of two variables in the final model there would be only one. Other variables either would have slight impact or not have it at all. These findings may be of considerable practical value.
If the variable, linked to the Board of Directors control in family companies is insignificant, then control has no impact on CEO behavior, he makes decisions on his own. In another case, additional hypotheses related to such traits as the presence of children and their gender, along with the nepotism and family members in the Board would be advanced. Then the second model, that is connected with these traits and R&D spending, would be built. 
Previously eastern companies were mainly investigated because of the large percentage of family firms, nevertheless recent studies have stated that this proportion started to increase in Europe as well. Hence, in my work family control is expected to have an impact on R&D intensity, thus supporting an appropriate hypothesis. Since in family companies nepotism often takes place, and this fact is well-known, as a result, this variable must also ultimately influence the innovation policy. 
By accomplishing the research project, it would be extremely interesting to receive the information, which is hardly presented in the literature and media sources - a comparison between innovation spending in family and non-family firms in European companies.
    
Limitations of the study
Current study is limited to the amount of data. Despite the fact that the original sample had more than 1400 European companies, later it was reduced. As a result, the percentage of family companies does not exceed 10%; thuswise the variable linked to family control would probably not be significant. The problem can be avoided by reducing the number of non-family firms in order to increase proportion of family counterparts.
In addition, during the database analysis it was found that there were mainly companies from Germany, France, Italy, Spain and Switzerland. It seems to me that it is possible to include other countries, because Europe is not limited to countries, used in sample. Additionally, researches I rely on, point out that it is better to examine small and medium-sized enterprises, excluding large ones with affiliated companies, as it simplifies the calculations of the number of employees (company size). 
Another limitation could be a time period. Four years are considered, and they are for the period between crises, when one came to an end, and the second has just started, consequently companies barely managed to invest in risky innovation policies. A dummy variable for crisis years can be introduced to overcome this problem. If this variable is significant, it is better to use another time period, or to analyze CEO behavior, bearing in mind the crisis and its consequences. Alternatively crisis does not affect firm decision-making process.
Thus, the study has many restrictions, but they should be taken into account in result analysis. What is more, in this field of study much remains to be done and limitations in my work may provide a framework for further research.