Introduction
Nowadays football is one of the most popular sports all over the world. There are over 1 million people that watch it at the stadiums, pubs or using TV and the Internet. Many supporters like to talk about different football clubs, their players and results. But the most discussed topic for all football fans is transfers because people always have a great interest in money paid for a player. 
For almost all football players, managers and spectators the meaning of transfer is single and there are no any other definitions that explain it in another way. Transfer is a deal between two clubs about moving a player from club-seller to club-buyer for some amount of money. Every year there is a strong trend of rising transfer prices. People see the price of Cristiano Ronaldo, Pogba, Bale that was paid by club-buyer and wonder why football players cost a lot of money. This question became interesting for researches only some years ago and there are not enough papers about the football transfers to consider this field of research fully studied. First articles were about the comparison Bosman and Pre-Bosman transfer systems. Later the authors began to concentrate on different factors that influence transfer prices in popular football league. It is easy to find researches about English football Premier League or German Bundesliga but there are no articles that examine transfer system of Russian, French or other European Leagues.
In this paper the author is going to consider transfers in Russian football Premier League and compare the results with other leagues. There is a need to mention that Russian football has some differences from European leagues. For example Russian clubs cannot have only foreign players in their teams because it is strongly restricted by the league. In addition there are some weather and long flight difficulties for players because Russia has great territory with different weather conditions.   
The research question of this paper is which factors are the most important in developing transfer price in Russian football Premier League. Tasks that should be done to achieve the research question are to analyze the relevant papers about transfers and its’ factors, collect the data that include transfers only in Russian football Premier League, choose the right methodology, derive an equation, calculate it and summarize the result. 
By achieving the tasks and answering the research question there will be created the detailed structure that shows what factors greatly influence transfer prices in Russian football Premier League and those that are not significant and may not be considered by clubs. Thus, this study can be taken into consideration by football managers of Russian football Premier League clubs that deal with transfers and take part in transfer negotiation. The managers using the results can determine what price should be paid for a football player and, therefore, it will help to save or even increase club’s money. Also the results will be important for football managers from European clubs that often buy players from Russian football Premier League or sell them to Russian clubs.
The research proposal has the following structure. In the theoretical background section there is the review of related literature that describe existing methods and samples about estimating transfer price. Methodology section gives the data analysis and describes the method which will be employed. In the last section predicted results and limitations of the research are represented.
     
Theoretical background
To start a new research there is a need to study later papers about transfer price and its factors. The first position that should be analyzed is samples. Eschweiler and Vieth (2004), Feess, Frick and Muehlheusser (2004), Frick and Lehmann (2001), St. Herm, Hans-Markus Callsen-Bracker and H. Kreis (2014) studied German Bundesliga. This league is one of the most powerful championship in the world and the best in Germany. The other authors, for example E. van den Berg (2011), J. Ruijg è H. van Ophem (2015), Dobson è Gerrard (1999) took English Premier League for their study that is the most popular League all over the world. Some authors (Polyakov and Zhukova, 2013; Speight and Thomas, 1997) considered all transfers in European leagues during 2-4 transfer windows. 
It is obvious that there are a lot of authors that considered the most popular English and German leagues but other European championships are not well-studied. Thus, people need new researches about factors of transfer prices in French, Spain, Russian and other leagues.
The second position that is analyzed in this paper is the method that was used by authors in their studies. In the majority of papers the authors made their research with traditional ordinary least squares method. The dependent variable was transfer price that had been paid for a football player. Independent variables were different factors characterizing the player or clubs that had taken part in the transfer. But some authors (Feess, Frick è Muehlheusser, 2004; Carmichael, Forrest and Simmons, 1999; J. Ruijg and H. van Ophem, 2015) decided to upgrade their research and used two-step Heckman model where there were two equations. In the first equation authors estimated variables that influence player’s decision to move to club-buyer. The second step was the estimation of factors that influence transfer price.
The third position that was discussed by different authors is the form of transfer price as a dependent variable. The vast majority of researchers prefered to take the transfer price logarithm in equation, instead of the original value. Some authors proved that logarithmic form of transfer price is more appropriate than the original one. But in modern papers of Polyakov and Zhukova (2013), St. Herm, Hans-Markus Callsen-Bracker and H. Kreis (2014), J. Ruijg and H. van Ophem (2015) transfer price was taken as original value. This fact can be explained by rising average transfer price in top five European leagues.
The fourth position that is considered in this paper is about independent variables. The choice of independent variables depends on the league, the period and the possibility of collecting the data. Thus, every paper has different independent variables that are the most appropriate for the research. But there are some variables that were used by the majority of authors. They are height, weight, age, number of played matches and scored goals in the previous season. One group of researchers used all variables in original value. The others used such variables as age, number of played matches and number of won cups both in original value and in quadratic form. The correctness of this method was proved by Polyakov and Zhukova (2013). The authors outlined that a football player reaches the career peak in 27 years where his football performance is the strongest in his life. After that period player’s results become weaker year after year. That fact has an important influence for the estimation of transfer price. 
The fifth position to be analyzed is the results of the researchers. At the end of each paper the authors achieved different results. It happened because every author used different independent variables. But there are similar results in different researches. Age, height, number of scored goals and played games in previous season positively influences on transfer price. The variable age squared has a negative effect.
Considering all positions in theoretical analysis it is obvious that this sphere of research is far from fully studied. There are only two leagues that have been studied by different authors and there are little amount of factors that are used in all research. Thus, this field of study needs more papers that consider the other football leagues and their transfers. 
     
Methodology and procedure
To start a practical part of this research there is a need to present the method, the sample and the procedure that will be used. As mentioned above, authors used only two different methods to estimate the factors that influence transfer price. They are ordinary least squares and two-step Heckman. In this paper it will be used two-step Heckman procedure because this method gave better results for previous authors. In the first step the fact of moving player to another team will be estimated. In the second step transfer price will be estimated and there will be found factors that have an influence on transfer price.
The research question of this paper says that it is needed to find factors that influence transfer price in Russian football Premier league. The sample should be consisted of all transfers that happened during limited time period in Russian football Premier league. The time period is from summer transfer window 2015 to summer transfer window 2016 because managers of Russian football Premier league affirmed new limit for foreign players that exists in current Russian championship. New limit rule that allow clubs to have only 6 or less foreign players on the pitch during a match has a strong influence on transfer aims of the clubs and transfer price of Russian football players. Moreover, it is needed to collect information about all players at this period to realize the two-step Heckman procedure. Thus, there are 471 players that played in Russian football Premier league in 2015-2016 seasons. The factors that will be used in the research are divided into three groups: nature player’s characteristics, player’s football characteristics and clubs’ characteristics that took part in the transfer negotiations. Age, weight, height, color of the skin and nationality are nature player’s characteristics. Player’s position, number of goals, assists, played games are player’s football characteristics. Goalkeepers are not presented in the sample because their player’s characteristics should be different from the other players and should be collected and observed separately. Stadium capacity, club’s position in the league, number of scored and conceded goals in the previous season are clubs’ characteristics. All the information was taken from transfermarkt.de that is one of the most popular sites about transfers in the World and from championat.com that can add some factors about Russian football players and clubs.
The next step after collecting and presenting the data is its analysis. There will be observed and presented descriptive statistics of all dependent and independent variables. In this part of the research it will be decided either take transfer price in logarithm value or in original one. Also all observations that are much bigger or less than the middle value will be deleted. Applying correlation analysis between independent variables will help to exclude some repetitive ones. And after all exclusions there will be probably near 430 observations.

Predicted outcomes
As a result of the research the factors that have an important influence on transfer price of players in Russian football Premier league will be found and compared with foreign ones. Although it is expected that clubs’ characteristics will have no influence on transfer price, all players’ characteristics will have a strong effect on transfer price. The conclusions of the study will help to illuminate key factors of developing the transfer prices in Russian football Premier League. Thus, managers of Russian and foreign clubs can estimate a fair price for every player that they want to buy or sell working with Russian football league clubs. It will help to develop clear and fair system of Russian Premier League transfers for World football community.
     
Limitations of the research
The study about transfer factors cannot be ideal and has some limitations. All football players have some club preferences that cannot be measured. Some of them want to be rich and move to weak club with huge salaries. The others want to play in top clubs and for them there is no matter how much money they get and for what amount of money they will be bought. This fact influences transfer price directly and can cause some problems with estimation. Also almost every football player has an agent that takes part in negotiation and has a right to rise the transfer price. The limitations presented above are noted by the other researches and their results are correct.
