Introduction
The problem of intellectual capital assessment and evaluation is highly discussed nowadays. As economies become more complex and interacted, companies need some tools to be competitive and drive their firm values.  Intellectual capital is a widely accepted driver of companies’ values and performance according to the huge strand of scientific literature (Stern and Shiely, 2001; Sydler et al., 2014). That is why, large amounts of intellectual capital are associated with higher efficiency. Because of lack of any common measure of IC, as the nature of the majority intellectual resources is intangible, firms have to understand what amount of intellectual resources belongs them. 
The most recent approach which will be used in current research to IC measurement is its monetary valuation. It assumes that intellectual capital as well as physical one is able to be accumulated and amortizes each year. Thus, this approach is quite common as it allows comparisons and has no restrictions for company’s industry or size.
Research question addressed in this paper will go deeper in the essence of intellectual capital (IC) transformation into companies’ value. The paper will explore accumulation rate of intellectual resources and amortization rate as well. Moreover, the authors are curious to reveal several differences in these values comparing developing and developed markets. 
To meet the goal it will be necessary to deal with the following tasks:
to study the literature referring to the topic of intellectual capital accumulation;
to find some differences of developing and developed markets;
to create a model and estimate its coefficients;
to calculate accumulation and amortization rates, and IC values for all companies observed;
to provide the analysis of results obtained and make necessary propositions.
The paper consists of several parts which are (1) theoretical background presenting existing approaches to IC measurement and common questions about capital accumulation process; (2) methodology describing the model employed; (3) predicted outcomes for accumulation and amortization rates, and IC values.

Theoretical background
In order to describe developments of academic literature in the area of intellectual capital management, it might be necessary to investigate developments in the notion of intellectual capital and measuring approaches; issues involved in the process of capital accumulation; and specifics of intellectual capital accumulation in Russia and Europe.
The conception of intellectual capital combines two approaches to value assessment: resource-based and value based. It helps to explain the process of value creation, because what really important is how combinations of heterogeneous inputs may result to better outcome (Molodchik, 2012).
In the current period, according to Kristandl and Bontis (2007), intellectual resources can be defined as “strategic firm resources that enable an organization to create sustainable value, but are not available to a large number of firms. They lead to potential benefits which cannot be taken by others and are not imitable by competitors or substitutable using other resources”. Following intellectual capital based view, the authors differentiate three types of intellectual resources: human capital, structural capital, relational capital. Human capital includes knowledge, skills and experience of companies’ employees. Structural capital is captured by the firm and present knowledge that is embedded in the organization through organizational routines, practices, processes, new technology, patents, etc. Relational capital identifies the company external connections with a wide variety of economic agents: customers, suppliers, government, mass media and other partners (Mertins, Will and Meyer, 2009).
It is difficult to evaluate company’s IC through conventional financial statements because these statements do not reflect the value of these intangible assets. Hence, further it is necessary to list different IC measures. 
In the history of the research on IC evaluation methods 4 main clusters of IC valuations are considered. The first one is direct intellectual capital method. The second one is market capitalization method. The third group can be called return on assets methods. The last cluster is presented by scorecard methods (Sveiby, 1997).
It is worthwhile to dramatically narrow the focus of investigation on the technique which is referring to the first cluster as it assumes the usage of monetary proxies which will be transformed into the aggregate parameter of intellectual capital expenses. The plausibility of the equation employing these monetary parameters is the problem that requires more deep and comprehensive analysis as it is a crucial assumption of current study. To achieve this goal the literature on this topic should be closely examined.
The hypothesis suggested by Bontis (2001) is that IC represents the stock of knowledge at a particular time what means it is stockpiling over time. Additionally, that study was partially based on the paper of Edvinsson and Malone (1997) where it was suggested that the overall monetary measure can be obtained by multiplying the sum of separate monetary proxies of intellectual capital pre-determinedly weighted and the mean of all percentage variables.
The research above can be paralleled by studies concerning knowledge production function. Many scholars such as Cr?pon at al. (1998) and others use the next form of KPF: .
And it is obvious that all the expenses are transformed into knowledge but not at the same amount. These papers give us an opportunity to support the assumption put forward about the existence of alpha coefficient and also its value.
Ramani et al.(2008) studied this field further and created one more assumption about the amortization of knowledge on the example of patents. There was assumed that knowledge created in the past become less useful or obsolescent over time by a rate of depreciation ? ? (0, 1). Therefore, it is substantial to apply the same approach to the IC accumulation process employed in current study.
Notably, both assumptions presume that company do whole spending by itself and cannot absorb any knowledge outside. So, the first restriction is that we deal with intellectual capital created internally. Imposed restriction can be justified by the idea represented in study of Mehralian et al.(2014). It assumes creation of knowledge can improve the flow of knowledge for an organization which can result in accumulation of more knowledge assets. That is why, we assume the expenditures done are the most important thing to examine and discuss.
Further it is required to discuss theoretical and fundamental distinctions of emerging and developed markets. It is essential to mention that we are going to accept some facts referring to tangible resources as they are concerning intellectual capital. All the rationales will be presented.
One of the possible methods of country’s economy comparison introduced by Glen and Singh (2004) is the analysis of financial statements . Considered a separate firm in emerging market, it was explored that it has lower levels of leverage, employs a higher level of fixed assets. Analyzing the obtained results we can suggest that such markets use intellectual capital relatively inefficient or do not use it at all as its returns on assets and equity are quite moderate or small, even though in recent years their values were increasing. In addition, it was confirmed that the difference in firm distribution is significant with smaller ones on emerging markets.
Turning to the distinctions in intangibles on different markets, it is reasonably to mention the paper of St?hle et al. (2015). Using the ELSS method assuming the existence of augmented production function in Cobb-Douglas form, they explain residuals of GDP not explained by traditional tangible assets as labour and capital. The analysis of obtained TFP values reveals that in EU benefits from intellectual resources employment while, for instance, BRICS’s development is mainly dependent on natural resources, cheap labour, tax benefits, etc. Almost same situation is observed in ASEAN. The authors have shown that NIC, as measured in the ELSS model, is statistically robust and shows a strong positive correlation with economic growth. That is why, we can assume that the development and endowment of intellectual resources in developed markets is relatively higher.
Generalizing all the assumptions made, we intend to study next problem: explore and compare intellectual resources accumulation and amortization rates and IC endowments for Russian and European countries based on EVA equation.

Methodology
This part of the proposal will explain the method used in carrying out the study and the data. On the whole, the research methodology will be based on the qualitative analysis of the firm level data. The paper of Sydler et al. will be employed as a basis in a current research as it is an evolving method to a certain extent. 
The model assumes the creation of aggregate indicator of intellectual capital which is based on the intellectual capital expenditures expressed in 3 monetary proxies: R&D expenditures, advertising expenditures and labor costs – by using a two-step model based on the adjusted dynamic residual income model. It is suggested that not all expenses are converted into intellectual capital but the exact part. Also the value of IC grows and amortizes every year on the same rate. In accordance with these assumptions, the next formula which allows assessing the amount of company intellectual resources was obtained:
(2)
So, the approach will help to investigate approximate values of intellectual capital itself at any moment of time. On this step it will be necessary to find the indicators of intellectual capital accumulation expressed by ?, ? and g
The scientists use an additional regression equation which is based on the residual income model proposed by Ohlson (1995). This model assumes that the market value of company, expressed by its market capitalization, consists of two parts: company’s book value and the infinite sum of discounted residual income flows. 
Consequently, the equation was modified and transformed to the appropriate specification and necessary coefficients were obtained with the help of multiple regression. These estimators were used to construct the system of equations which helped to calculate the rates of accumulation and amortization. Then the values of intellectual capital were calculated.
(3)
The database will be received from IDLab of NRU HSE-Perm and contains than 1000 Russian public companies and 1400 public companies located in five European countries (United Kingdom (44%), Germany (24%), France (25%), Spain (5%) and Italy (2%). It will cover years from 2004 to 2014 and will present diverse industries what makes analysis representative.
On the basis of the huge body of literature above we can propose several hypotheses:
H1: the endowment of intellectual resources is lower in developing markets;
H2: developing markets have lower accumulation and higher amortization rate.

Predicted outcomes 
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. Moreover, the existing limitations of research will be presented.
In accordance with hypotheses put forward before, I intend to obtain the following results. First of all, I assume that H1 will be proved and we will obtain significant differences in IC endowment of Russian and European companies. The rationale for this suggestion is statistical analysis of country level data. Furthermore, we suppose that H2 will be verified and the desired coefficients for accumulation and amortization rates for Russian companies will make up approximately 0.8 and 0.3, respectively; for European companies accumulation rate is more than 0.9 and amortization is less than 0.2. The anticipated results are quite precise because of previous studies. In addition, it is supposed to think of ways which IC and, hence, efficiency can be managed, namely research implications.

Limitations of research
The limitations of current study are the following. The first restriction is that we deal with intellectual capital created internally. This assumption was mentioned before. Also we used only 3 monetary proxies not dealing with binary or categorical ones. This narrows the scope of research and does not allow assessing IC potential fully. In future research this problem might be solved. 
Another limitation is connected with the dataset available. It contains European and Russian companies to compare but this comparison may be not full. For Europe region I have data only on 5 developed countries what makes data less representative. For Russian companies there is a problem of data missing as not all companies disclose financial statements.