Introduction
Over the last decade, the application of the Internet technologies as sales channels has become significantly widespread. As time goes on, many companies change their business-models in order to go along with the trends of digital era and gain competitiveness. A great number of firms appearing on the market is based completely on e-business models, providing traditional goods through online platforms. At the very beginning of its development e-commerce was primarily involved in consumer markets. Today a high percentage of commercial transactions between enterprises or B2B is also conducted electronically via the Internet. Nevertheless, not all industries have been included in e-commerce because in certain cases Internet-based technologies cannot satisfy some specific needs. The possibility and reasonability of that for some markets is still being analyzed.
This study is focused on the market of commercial cooking equipment in B2B segment. The target audience of companies-sellers operating on this market are public catering organizations, e.g., restaurants, cafes, canteens and food producers such as bakeries and food factories.  Traditional process of long-used equipment purchasing used could be characterized by rigorous decision-making process, frequent personal meetings between the buyers and consultants for more effective selection, need to observe of the operation process and trainings on exploitation. Despite this fact, some part of the players on that market are online dealers, most of which were founded 1-2 years ago. This raises several questions. Are managers and company owners ready to purchase the equipment without face-to-face consultancy and a chance to see the exploitation process, trusting only the website and telecommunication? What website characteristics make the buyer confident about quality and reliability of the company? What kind of marketing and communication channels would be mostly preferable for such case?
The purpose of this work is the development of marketing strategy for the online store operating on the commercial cooking equipment e-market. To achieve this goal several tasks should be completed:
1. to carry out a literature review on Internet-marketing and communication channels in B2B segment;
2. to elaborate on relevant methodology and procedure;
3. to collect and analyze the qualitative and quantitative data;
4. to develop recommendations for the online store operating on the commercial cooking equipment e-market.
The methodology of the analysis is presented by focused interview and clickstream analysis. Focused interviews of target audience are required to obtain information on the consumer motivation and preferences. The clickstream analysis includes examination of traffic sources of considered online store and the competitors. It results in ranging and selection of the most appropriate marketing channels to increase the website traffic. 
The expected outcomes will help to work out an effective strategy of Internet-promotion for the online store operating on the commercial cooking equipment e-market. The results will lead to clear understanding of the target audience and change in the marketing messages in promotion accordingly to consumer portraits. Along with the website traffic analysis, it will help to choose and prioritize the mostly appropriate marketing channels. 
This study may appear to be helpful for website managers and the owners of online stores which operate on the markets with high percentage of one-time purchases, e.g. markets of industrial equipment. 

Theoretical Background
The following review is based on a systematic studying the existing literature on the Internet marketing in B2B sphere. As far as this research field is fairly wide and actively developing, the main focus is made on the research questions mentioned in the first part. Hence, the review covers such aspects as business motives to operate online, interconnection between the Internet and traditional sales channels.
To begin with, it is necessary to clarify reasons why businesses prefer to handle transactions through the Internet in comparison with traditional channels. From the beginning of a new century numerous attempts have been made to provide a convincing explanation for this changeover. The work of Lightfoot and Harris (2003) describes how big enterprises operating on the motion control market had turned to Internet-based business models. The authors emphasize several important benefits of that model: a) the Internet as an endless source of information for consumers; b) strengthening the buyer’s position in negotiations in terms of getting better prices and conditions; ñ) more efficient and fast service. The idea of time saving as one of the main advantages for business is supported by Harrison-Walker and Neeley as well (2004). They claim that it is exceedingly valuable for companies which are typically constrained by the limit of working hours to operate 24/7. The Internet has made it accessible to handle transactions for people all over the world at any time. Additionally, e-platforms with advanced automated systems are synchronized with manufacturers, suppliers and delivery services, that altogether can dramatically cut time costs.
It is difficult to overestimate the contribution of Norman and Deeter-Schmelz (2001) to investigation of consumer behavior online. They have made some decisive implications towards industrial user’s motives, personal and organizational factors which affect the purchasing propensity. One of the key findings shows that the 2 main motives of industrial buyers appear to be gathering product information or new suppliers, and communication with existing ones. The results also indicate 4 features which users derive benefits from: (1) ease of use, (2) ease of comparing prices and products, (3) ease of information exchange and access, (4) reduction of paper and time (Norman, Deeter-Schmelz, 2001).
Another benefit of the Internet is that it contains various types of communication:  
* one-way communication (e.g., searching and analyzing websites, content, watching videos);
* two-way communication (e.g., e-mail, online chatting between two persons);
* multi-way communication (e.g., social networks, blogs, web-conference) (Mantrala, Albers, 2013).
One important question which has been scholarly debated is related to comparison between the Internet and traditional communication channels in B2B, i.e. the sales force.  It is traditionally in charge of setting long-term customer relationships between firms, holding personal meetings, providing product information, consultancy, negotiating and contracting. Face-to-face contact has been estimated as the most reliable and insightful way of interaction in the B2B sphere as it gives an opportunity to learn a great deal of information about the partner, that cannot be obtained through the phone calls, mail and website (Hunter & Tietyen, 1997). However, some authors argue that the Internet considerably adds value to the company by lowering transitional costs mentioned before and predict noticeable sales force downsizing (Porter 2001; Sharma 2002;). On the other hand, there is a contradictory viewpoint that human touch in B2B sales is an irreplaceable factor apart from the Internet communication channels (Lewin, Biemans, and Ulaga 2010; Ahearne and Rapp 2010). Thus, companies which are based completely on e-business-models can provide only impersonal communications that often lead to buyer’s uncertainty and discomfort. Hoover (2000) suggests one of the possible ways to reduce this impact. He proposes 3 instruments, applying which the companies can gain users’ credit and build trustworthy customer relationships online: demonstration of certification documents, insurance and providing dispute resolution procedures on the platform. In addition, Internet-based technologies allow using different types of content that makes marketing messages more vivid and persuasive, i.e. audio, video, pictures and text.
It should be noted that many works lack practice-orientation, and not much attention has been given to selection of practical Internet techniques appropriate for B2B. In 2004 Harrison-Walker and Neeley proposed a typology of relevant Internet practices for B2B relationships. The authors divide the buying process in 3 stages (pre-purchase, purchase and post-purchase) and recommend different techniques for each of them. Pre-purchase stage can be characterized by rigorous search and comparison, thus the practices specified are search engine optimization, electronic catalogs, presence in discussion groups, forums and guides for product selection. The stage of purchase assumes efficient work of all operational processes including website’s usability, electronic ordering and payment system, customization of product design and documentation. The third stage of post-purchase includes order tracking, product return assistance, getting customer feedback, customer involvement and training seminars (Harrison-Walker, Neeley 2004). This typology is a good starting point, but it does not give a comprehensive explanation. 
In a more recent study by Mantrala and Albers the buying process is decomposed in 9 stages, each of those includes specific set of techniques. The stages are (1) need recognition, (2) definition of requirements, (3) determination of specifications, (4) search for and  qualification of suppliers, (5) requests for proposal, (6) supplier proposal evaluation, (7) supplier selection, (8) negotiations and purchase, and (9) qualifying the purchase afterward. The range of suggested techniques for B2B is wide enough including contextual adds, e-marketplaces, business databases, video blogs (YouTube), webinars, relevant social media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter), partnership with third-party websites, etc (Mantrala, Albers 2013). 
All the authors outline search marketing or search engine optimization as one of the key relevant channel for B2B promotion (Harrison-Walker, Neeley 2004; Mantrala, Albers 2013). The research published on a web portal MarketingProfs indicates the highest conversion from this source of traffic (MarketingProfs LLC, 2009). It is particularly so in the market of commercial cooking equipment which is under consideration for the present study. This can be explained by the fact that most of the revenue comes from one-time purchases. Hence, the first stages of user’s buying process are the most important, i.e. to make him find company’s website. 
This specific kind of market with an accent on one-time purchases has not been under close investigation yet. It is proposed that consumer motives and a set of relevant communication channels can significantly differ from the previously observed ones as they are often oriented on long-term customer relationships. All the theoretical foundations must be taken into account from the viewpoint of specific market in further elaboration.  

Methodology and procedure
This part of proposal is focused on methods and the data used in the research. This field study is aimed at studying 2 aspects: the motivation of the buyers on the commercial cooking equipment e-market and selection of the most appropriate marketing channels for the relevant online store. Accordingly, 2 methods are needed to complete this tasks: focused interview and clickstream analysis. Hence, the study represents a mix of qualitative and quantitative methods of analysis.
For examination of the consumers’ motivation the focused interview is going to be carried out. This qualitative method of study is applied when there is a need to analyze some aspects of any specific process which the interviewee had taken part in. Each interview lasts approximately 40-60 minutes, this time period is enough for the interviewee to describe his motives, preferences, feelings and behavior in details. The participants will be represented by 10-15 real and potential commercial cooking equipment buyers, i.e. the owners and management of cafes, restaurants, food factories, and people who are going to set up the business in this sphere in the nearest future. The structure of interview guide will be primarily based on the motivation approach of Norman and Deeter-Schmelz.
To define the mostly appropriate marketing channels for the online store, the best suitable method is clickstream analysis. This technique is based on the website traffic data, which is available for website manager thanks to analytical systems (Google Analytics and Yandex Metrica). Clickstream analysis is applied for the website of the described online store and for its main competitors. The variables, i.e. communication channels, will be chosen according with the approach of Mantrala and Albers (Mantrala, Albers 2013). The data analysis will be carried out by using IBM SPSS software. The sample will include at least 2000 observations and be representative. 

Predicted outcomes
This section describes the results anticipated with the help of the chosen methodology. Generally, the future exploitation of them will help to work out an effective strategy of Internet-promotion for the described online store. 
First, the company will be given several detailed consumer profiles with the characteristics of their preferences, motives and feelings about the stages of commercial cooking equipment purchasing process. The detailed analysis of target audience will clarify the consumer motivation for the company which could result in more impactful marketing messages in promotion. Besides, it will likely lead to the website redesign and usability improvement to make the purchasing process as clear and convenient as possible. 
Secondly, clickstream analysis will show what marketing channels result in the highest rate of conversion for this specific kind of e-market. It will help to make up a list of the appropriate prioritized communication channels to increase the website traffic and reduce cost per click. 
To sum up, these results altogether will help to build up an effective marketing strategy which in turn can lead to increase in sales in the long run. Nowadays it is clear that the commercial cooking equipment e-market is still developing. Moreover, it has no geographical boundaries thanks to logistics technologies. It brings hope for further potential business growth and success.

Limitations of research
As all the research works, this proposal includes several constraints and possible disadvantages which are explained in this part.  While some of them can be overcome by more rigorous analysis, the rest are difficult to resolve as they require additional examination and data.  
First, it is evident that the results can not be fully extended to all the markets with the high percentage of one-time purchases. The commercial cooking equipment e-market is one of such representatives, however, it certainly has its very specific organizational features which distinguish it from others. Hence, following the practical recommendations of the present research must be carried out from the viewpoint of market considered. 
Secondly, as it was previously explained, there are no research works or by-liners on this specific market. That is why this work may be just a starting point for further observation. 
Another disadvantage is that proposed recommendations on the marketing channels will probably show effectiveness during a limited period of time until new technologies and channels are introduced. 
In addition, there may appear gaps related to the expertise of the researcher particularly in focused interview: not effective selection of respondents, miscommunication, misinterpretation, etc. Nevertheless, these drawbacks can be avoided by training and more rigorous and attentive approach of the interviewer.