Introduction
Background. The energy is an essential factor of the production along with capital and labor in the modern economy. For the economic growth in the long-run period each of the factors should be provided. However, the conventional sources of energy, which are widely used, could turn out to be depleted in the future, so the economic growth would be limited and collapsed. The option that would facilitate the economic growth rising in the long-run period is the transition towards renewable energy sources. However, the success of the energy policy depends on the many factors, including the effects from the usage of the particular type of energy on the production level. Previous studies have not concluded the casual relationship between the renewable energy consumption and economic growth because of their diverse results. Thus, the relevance of this study is the need for further research for the achievement of certain results, which then could be considered during the development of energy policy. 

Problem Statement. The aim of this study is to examine the casual relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth for the United States of America. To achieve the aim, the following objectives of the study should be completed:
To analyze and summarize the prerequisite studies dedicated to the research topic;
To implement the temporal disaggregation for transforming quarterly data into the monthly data;
To test the data for both the stationary and the cointegration;
To estimate the vector error correction model (VECM);
To test the data with the causality tests;
To construct the impulse response functions (IFR);
To interpret the results;
To make a conclusion.

Delimitations of the Study. The study is dedicated to the relationship between the renewable energy consumption and economic growth in the US, because the data with a large number of observations was available for the US since 1973. Besides, the available data has both a quarterly and monthly frequency, whereas for the other countries only the annual data are accessible. Moreover, the temporal disaggregation is utilized to transform quarterly data into the monthly data, which would give more information and more precise results. Therefore, this study is dedicated to the testing of the casual issue between renewable energy consumption and economic growth for the USA whole economy.

Professional Significance. As far as known, there are few studies dedicated to American economy. Moreover, these studies have been carried out on the basis of the annual data. The significance of the current research is the fact that the obtained monthly data will be used. The usage of monthly data will provide more precise information and help to understand the relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth. In return, the knowledge gained can be used for the development the proper energy strategy, which would advantage the economic growth.
Definitions of Key Terms.
Renewable energy – energy, produced from self-restoring sources for the time period that is suitable for a human.
Economic growth – an increase in the capacity to offer population diverse goods and services, which is attributable to the developed technology and the population’s ideology demanded (Kuznets, 1973).

Literature review
The first research dedicated to casual energy-growth nexus was published in the 1978, and the unidirectional causation running from GNP to energy consumption has been found by the implementation of the Granger causality (Kraft & Kraft, 1978). Since then a bunch of research, studying the energy-growth nexus, have been performed (Janosi & Grayson, 1972; Ouédraogo, 2010; Sugiawan & Managi, 2019 etc.). The first studies dedicated to the analysis of relationship between the renewable energy consumption and economic growth have been  published in 2009 (Sadorsky, 2009a; Sadorsky, 2009b), and their results are the positive effect running from real GDP per capita to renewable energy consumption. After that, there have been other studies dedicated to this topic (Apergis & Payne, 2010; Bhattacharya et al., 2016; Brini et al, 2017; Marinaș, 2018). However, the results from above mentioned studies are inconclusive and do not signify the long-run effects running from the energy consumption to economic growth (Apergis & Danuletiu, 2014).
At the current moment many research were published dedicated to energy-growth nexus, including the analysis between consumption of renewable energy and the economic growth. As an instance, in the latest studying for the sample of developing countries the lack of relationship between the economic growth and renewable energy consumption has been proved (Emirmahmutoglu & Kӧse, 2011). It is noteworthy that developing countries have been found to invest more means to renewable energy development than the developed countries. Authors of this work implied bootstrap panel causality due to possibility of this methodology to consider the heteroskedasity between the countries, so that the correct estimation is provided. Also the idea of analysis of labor, capital and energy is asserted due to dealing the problem of omitted variables (Isik et al.2017).
For the China –the country with the biggest volume of carbon emissions, – the analysis of the nexus between carbon emissions, renewable and nonrenewable energy consumption and the economic growth was conducted. Authors insist that with the increasing of income the population becomes engaged in the conversation of the environment, because the better the state of the environment guarantees physical and mental wellness. This conclusion was made from utilized an ecological Kuznets curve analysis,  in which a "U" form  has been founded for the China. The ecological Kuznets curve captures the dependence of the emissions’ rate, which is on X line, on the GDP per capita, which is on Y line (Chen et al, 2019). The same result was gained for India (Sinha & Shahbaz, 2018).
For the South Africa’s countries a similar research has been conducted (Adams et al, 2018). Authors insist that for the underdeveloped countries the renewable energy gives an opportunity to attract the investments. The reason for investors’ interest is the poor development of the energy industry in those countries. Due to this a major part of their population is lack an access to energy. At the same time, the African countries are rich with the renewable energy, namely the solar energy. The development of renewable energy industry would not only create new jobs, but also meet the demand for energy of African population. This would lead to high cash, because the renewable energy would be the main type of energy used in South Africa. Authors also found the relationship between the investigated variables in the long run, but the relationship in the short-run was not been detected. It could be explained by the fact that the investments are cost-effective in the long-run. In addition, because of the underdevelopment of the renewable energy technologies, the consumption of the non-renewable energy was founded to have more influence on the economic growth than the consumption of the renewable energy.
For the US data many research for renewable energy and the economic growth also were conducted. In the one of them the generalized forecast error variance decomposition analysis was utilized on the monthly data (Ewing et al., 2007).  The explanation of economic growth by most the renewable energy sources has been founded. In another research, in which the Toda-Yamamoto procedure was employed on the US data for the 1949–2006, the absence of relationship between the renewable energy consumption and real output has been indicated (Payne, 2009a). In a sector analysis of renewable energy consumption the unidirectional causality from residential renewable energy consumption to real output was detected while the absence of a causal relationship between commercial and industrial renewable energy consumption and real output, respectively (Bowden & Payne, 2010). In another studying the Toda-Yamamoto procedure also has been applied with the bootstrap-corrected causality test on the US data. The results show a unidirectional causality running from biomass energy consumption to economic growth, while the absence of relationship between renewable energy consumption and economic growth is supported (Yildirim & Aslan, 2012). 
Methods. To achieve the objective, the next methodology will be implied. The first step is to examine the time series by the panel cointegration test. If the time series are integrated of order one, the vector error correction model then will be constructed (Eagle & Granger, 1987). 
There is a specification of  VECM, where GDP – real GDP, RE – consumption of the renewable energy, NRE – consumption of non-renewable energy, L – labor force, K – capital formation. ECM is the error correction term. Following the Apergis and Payne (Apergis and Payne, 2009), the short-run causality will be indicated by the testing the significance of a coefficients in the first five equations.  The long-run causality will be determined by the t-test applied to s coefficients that are before the error correction term in the first five equations. Apart from it, the impulse response functions are considered to apply with the aim to examine the shocks between the analyzed variables. Along with it, the tests for causality will be also implied.
Regarding the results, the one of four hypotheses should be confirmed:
H0: There is an absence of a casual relationship between energy consumption and economic growth (the neutrality hypothesis).
H1: There is unidirectional causality from energy consumption to economic growth (the growth hypothesis).
H2: There is unidirectional causality from economic growth to energy consumption (the conservation hypothesis).
H3: There is bidirectional causality between energy consumption and economic growth (the feedback hypothesis).

Results Anticipated
Considering previous studies, the hypothesis about the absence of relationship between energy consumption and economic growth is expected to be supported. However, there is a possibility to reveal the casual relationship due to analysis of the biggest quantity of observations. Besides, the linkage between variables are expected to be insignificant in the short-run period, while in the long-run period the connections between the renewable and nonrenewable energy consumption and the economic growth are supposed to be identified.

Conclusion
In conclusion, the casual relationship is considered to be revealed in this work. A feature of this study is the fact that the analysis will be conducted on the basis of the monthly data. Due to monthly frequency, there will be more observations, so that the result would be plausible. Besides, in the future the result of this study could be considered during the development of energy strategy in the US.