Introduction
Background. The first mention of mergers and acquisitions transactions appeared in 60-ies years of the last century. To regulate the process, the special established a special association that provides oversight of mergers and acquisitions. Their responsibilities include not only verification of the transaction, but also the analysis of the implications of its holding, in consequence of which the decision of permission or refusal will be made. The researchers could not ignore the new kind of transactions and their regulation, so over time articles aimed at studying them   began to. It should be noted that the researchers in their works tend to cover all possible problems associated with them, such as: the study of quality control, its legitimacy and finding different patterns in decision making process , whose task is to identify transactions that may lead to restriction of competition before the beginning of their implementation stage (ex ante). 
In the current work we will consider institutional factors in mergers and acquisitions in Russia. In this regard, will examine the work of researchers aimed at studying the institutional factors specific to Russia and Russian control of the merge. Also attention is paid to the factors that have a direct impact on the outcome of decision making in economic concentration transactions. 

Problem Statement.  As part of ongoing research, we would like to answer the question: do institutional factors influence the decision of the antimonopoly authority in the Russian merger control? This determines the aim of the research. The aim of the study is to identify and analyze factors affecting decision making process in merger transactions in Russia.

Below are the hypotheses that will be considered in the course of this work:
1. The existence of agreements between companies involved in transactions will increase the probability that they will be prescribed or rejected.
2. If the buyer company is foreign the probability of issuing an order or refusal will increase.
3. Separation by industry will increase the probability of issuing an order or refusal.
4. Abuse of dominance will increase the probability of issuing an order or refusal.
5. If the buyer company is state the probability of issuing an order or refusal will increase.

Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be limited by the amount of information to be collected. First of all, it will be limited by the country. In this research we will work only with Russian transactions. Secondly, it will be limited by the amount of time. The base includes the information about transactions from 2013 to 2020 year. Moreover, the amount of transactions will be limited 
by a site where you can find information about transactions. This is due to the fact that not all transactions made during the selected period fall into the public domain.

Professional Significance In the modern world, a huge number of merger transactions are conducted. This study will allow companies entering into merger transactions to understand what aspects should be considered when preparing a petition. Relying on the results of this study, it will be clear: which of the factors can affect the decision regarding the proposed transaction, and which have no influence. We strongly believe that research results will serve as a support for future transactions. 

Literature Review
Over the past half century, the studying of merger transactions has been under increasing scrutiny of theorists and intellectuals. This issue is analyzed in numerous publications, but in the framework of this research, we will consider only the most significant. 
First of all, we would like to mention research that describes the factors that affect the decision of the merger control. One of the main researches aimed to study the peculiarities of work of the Antimonopoly authority can consider the work of M. Bergman. (Bergman, M., Jakobsson M., Razo C., 2005) and (Bergman et al., 2010). 
An earlier study aimed to identify features of merger control in the European practice. Bergman found that if, upon entering into a merger, the market shares of companies increased significantly, the probability of issuing an order or refusal will increase.  It was also noted that the failure probability increases, in the event of high entry barriers, or in the case of detecting collusion. Significant effects of "political" variables such as the nationality of the parties to the transaction were not detected.
A 2010 study devote to the comparison of characteristics of control transactions in the US and Europe. It was discovered that European control is stricter than in United States. In the US, unlike European practice, more attention is paid to the nationality of companies who are trying to do the transaction. In the study, it was also found that models allow us to compare the policies of the US and Europe only in single cases, because the generalization is risky. Relying on the results of this study, we can assert that for each country there are their own peculiarities of regulation of transactions, and we cannot apply the results regarding the United States and Europe to the Russian practice without making adjustments. 
Research about features of the Russian antitrust regulation has been held in a paper (Redkina, A., 2015). The article presents a study of the particularities of Russian Antimonopoly regulation of economic concentration transactions, namely the application of corrective prescriptions. The tool of analysis was a discrete choice. In the result, it was found that the transactions in which the market share of the companies exceeds the average value are more susceptible to the imposition of regulations.  Also, the possibility of making regulations may be higher if there are high entry barriers. The study introduced the variable for the five giant companies, allowing to track the fact that most of the regulations applied in relation to the transactions involving these companies. Thus, we can see that unlike foreign practices in the period from 2007 to 2013, the nationality of the companies did not have any effect on a decision-making process in Russia. 
It would be also necessary to point out the early studies. First of all, is the work (Coate, M. B., & McChesney, F. S., 1992). It aims to study the factors influencing the decision of the merger control in the United States. In the course of the study, it was found that the decision depends on the level of concentration, high entry barriers and the existence of collusion between companies involved in the deal. Such factors as the purchased firm is bankrupt does not affect the decision. 
Study about mergers in Canada, was published (Khemani, R. S., & Shapiro, D. M., 1993). In this study it was identified more factors influencing the decision. So, market shares, concentration levels, high barriers and presence of import competition between firms entering into a merger, affect the decision in merger control. Also, as in the previous study, the fact that the purchased firm is bankrupt does not affect the decision regarding the transaction. 
One of the latest studies is the investigation of mergers in Australia (Breunig, R., Menezes, F. M., & Tan, J. K. J., 2012). The factors that have influence on a merger control decision include: the level of concentration and the height of the barrier. Industry characteristics and the presence of import competition have no impact. 
The most recent study is (Qing Gong Yang, Michael Pickford, 2013), aimed at the study of transactions in New Zealand. The factors affecting the result of the transaction are: the level of concentration, the height of the barrier. 
All of studies that are mentioned above and the results were tabulated (table 1). We can see a certain pattern, which was confirmed during the course work of the last year. As can be seen below, such factors as market shares, level of concentration and barrier height have an impact on the decision. Thus, in the future, these factors will be used in the work and be referred to as the factors directly influencing the result of competition authority decisions. 
As mentioned earlier, as part of the course work of last year, we confirmed the influence of the above factors on the outcome of the decision of the merger control. A second reference to these factors in the framework of the current study will be necessary, since without them, the results obtained as a result of an econometric study will be unreliable and biased. As part of the thesis, we are interested in checking: institutional factors influence the decision of the merger control.
It should be noted that in the studies mentioned above, institutional factors were considered along with economic factors. For example, in Bergman’s work (A. Bergman, M., Jakobsson M., Razo C., 2005), such factors as the presence or absence of collusion between companies entering into a merger transaction were examined, and a variable responsible for the industry affiliation of the companies was included in the study. This factor can be attributed to institutional, since each industry has its own characteristics.
Institutional factors were also investigated in research about US, in which it was found that the presence of collusion between companies affects the decision of the antimonopoly authority, and the classification of companies by industry has no effect.
Despite the fact that in the two aforementioned studies, the distribution by industry did not affect the decision of the antimonopoly authority in any way, the results of the study of the Russian merger control indicate the opposite.
In a 2012 study regarding the Australian merger control, a factor was identified that was responsible for the influence of third parties on the transaction, namely the imposed merger. In the study, the influence of this factor on the decision of the regulatory body was not identified.
The effects of collusion between companies involved in the merger were also investigated in (Qing Gong Yang, Michael Pickford, 2013). The collusion factor also influenced the decision by the antimonopoly authority regarding the authorization of merger transactions.
Thus, based on the above studies, we identified 3 institutional factors that may affect the decision of the antimonopoly body, namely: industry affiliation, the presence of collusion between companies entering into a transaction and an imposed merger. 

Methods
The current research is devoted to the study of institutional factors, under the influence of which the merger control is inclined to issue orders or refuse to conduct transactions of economic concentration.
To carry out an econometric study, was compiled a database which describe applications in the field of economic concentration. To compile these databases, a number of works were carried out: to search for information and select variables that characterize transactions. First of all, among all the documents that are freely available on the website of the Federal Antimonopoly Service, the selection of applications describing transactions in the field of economic concentration was carried out. Then each of the applications was reviewed and analyzed by points:
1. Date of application
2. Participants in the transaction
3. Nationality of participants: Russian, foreign, offshore
4. Subject of the transaction: stocks, shares, production assets, rights
5. Did the buyer have control over the company being purchased before the transaction was completed, and if so, the size of its initial package / share / number of production assets
6. The total package / share / number of production assets
7. Industry
8. Market shares of transaction participants
9. Industry concentration
10. Type of merger: vertical, horizontal, coglomerative
11. Decision of the antimonopoly authority: approval, order, prohibition
12. The presence or absence of collusion
13. The presence of state influence
14. Presence of an imposed merger
The base includes 7,872 transactions from 2012 to 2017 and is assembled by joint efforts of students writing term papers on the topic of research on economic concentration transactions. For research, the probit model and multinominal model will be used.

Results Anticipated 
The final part of the proposal will report on the results that can be obtained using the methods mentioned above. In addition, it should be noted that the text will be combined with tables and figures, which will reflect the results in a more representative form. We expect that all the hypothesis will be confirmed. 

Conclusion
According to the researches that have been mentioned above, we may say that it is impossible to apply the same rules and observations to all countries at once. Every country has its own specialities. So, it is necessary to research the institutional factors of merger control separately. 
We strongly believe that the results of this research would bring useful background for companies who would enter into merger transactions.