Introduction
Background. The problem of the influence of factors on the average check in Perm restaurants is considered a controversial issue in microeconomics. The issue mentioned was addressed in small number articles by Russian and foreign authors. When evaluating the performance of restaurants, managers usually measure various factors to evaluate performance. One of the most important factors is the model of the “average guest” - the average characteristics of restaurant visitors. Since the price of dishes directly affects the average customer rating, it is extremely important for management to study effective pricing strategies. Understanding customer preferences and the characteristics of the restaurant, affecting the average price, is also important for restaurant business success. To solve this problem, managers can adopt a hedonic pricing model to better substantiate pricing. The hedonic pricing model is applied in various fields, such as the automotive market, real estate and the hotel business. The hedonic pricing model can be used to explain the pricing structure of products. as far as it explains how the combination of various characteristics of different products and services affects the price set, it makes it easy to determine which characteristics have higher influence, which are lower, and to what extent.
Effective pricing is a powerful tool to attract customer attention and increase sales. From the point of view of customers, the price of a product or service is a measure of quality; therefore, restaurant management should carefully determine pricing strategies. Many studies have shown that approximately 30% of restaurants do not survive during the first year. Reasons for failure include ineffective or inadequate marketing and poor management or wrong operational decisions, including pricing.
Little attention is paid to price determinants, so the hedonic pricing method can help managers to create and implement optimal pricing strategies. Therefore, this study examines the attributes of restaurants that can influence prices at specific locations in the city.

Problem statement. The analysis of works on pricing strategies revealed that the average check calculation is key concept in is vital for restaurant to be successful and competitive. Therefore, the overall goal of this project is to study important attributes of a restaurant, including tangible, intangible, and location-dependent variables that affect the average price of food in a restaurant in Perm and draw conclusions about how they affect the average check.
Delimitations of the study. The study has several delimitations. Firstly, the database included observations collected from April and October 2019 and April 2020 and is presented by restaurants clustered by price. Secondly, the restaurants are located in the city of Perm. And finally, is worth mentioning that not every place may be considered as a restaurant. During the research it is planned to determine the selection bias. 
Professional significance. From a logical point of view, the present research has purely applied meaning. There is no any specific issue under consideration; however, this project can be a matter of paramount importance for experts, entrepreneurs, and managers who are involved in the sphere of social service and business.

Main part
Literature Review
In this part of the project proposal the way of studying the existing literature will be developed. As far as pricing is not a new phenomenon, it is necessary to analyze its history of formation for better understanding of its principles and purposes.
The hedonic pricing model has been used in a few hospitality researches studies. Focused on examining important attributes that influence hotel room rates (Andersson, 2010; Espinetet al., 2003; Rigall-I-Torrent and Fluvià, 2011; Zhang et al., 2011) ticket prices for lifts (Falk, 2008) or other travel services. However, the use of hedonistic pricing in restaurant products is very limited today.
Despite the significance of pricing decisions in restaurants’ success, pricing has received inadequate attention in the area of restaurant studies. (Raab et al., 2009; Shoemaker et al., 2005), The use of the hedonic pricing model in has been discussed in only a few studies. One of the latter identified influential variables such as service, food quality, decor, location and availability of parking near the restaurant; however, the determinants of the hedonic pricing models in the previous literature were not comprehensive enough to cover all the features of the restaurant industry. To fill the gap in previous restaurant pricing studies, this study develops a holistic hedonic pricing model that includes key restaurant characteristics, such as cuisine type, restaurant location, and e-WOM (electronic- (word-of-mouth), for example, restaurant reviews. After analyzing the attributes and factors that are important for customers, it will be possible to collect and organize useful information about restaurant management and strategies. Also, the results of the study can be useful for visitors themselves - they will have a full understanding of what they pay for when visiting restaurants in the city. 
In the hedonic pricing model, goods and services are considered as a group of different characteristics (Rosen, 1974; Triplett, 1969). For example, when a client makes a hotel reservation, the attributes he is looking for include not only the price of the hotel, but also its location, the size of the hotel, and available amenities. The cost that customer pays for the room includes several characteristics. Court (1939) first studied the pricing structure of products, consisting of many characteristics, and called it "hedonic pricing." These sets of characteristics of goods and services are not sold separately, but only in the form of packages (Lee, 2008). Rozen introduced the hedonic pricing model in 1974, which was adopted by researchers in various industries. “The model assumes that consumers value various attributes in different way sand that the prices consumers pay for products are a function of their immanent utility bearing characteristics” (Rosen, 1974; Thrane, 2005, 2007). Consequently, hedonic pricing is established in the form of a function.
In restaurant studies, the hedonic pricing model was applied by Falvey R.E., Fried H.O., Richards B. in 1992, Gergaud O., Guzman L., Verardi V. in 2007 and Gunawardana P.J., Havrila I.I. in 1996.
Price should be determined carefully, as it serves as an indicator of the quality of a product or service for customers (Zeithaml et al., 2006). Among others, restaurant success factors include interior design and pricing. These factors were studied by many industry experts and scientists, after which they were called important for the restaurant. Price analysis is an important tool for restaurant managers because effective pricing can lead to customer satisfaction as well as financial success (Annaraud, 2007; Atkinson and Jones, 1994). One of the important measures used to assess the effectiveness of a restaurant is the average check, which is directly related to the prices on the menu. Susskind and Chan (2000) studied the features of restaurants that influence the average customer check, and they explained the relationship between restaurant characteristics and the average restaurant check using regression analysis. The features of nine different restaurants were examined, and the study showed that the dress code and parking have a positive relationship with the average check, while the take-out service is negatively related to the formation of the price. They encouraged future researchers to expand their work by adding other important features, such as cuisine types and location factors. Later, Fogarty (2012) investigated the influence of restaurant reputation and type of cuisine on prices. His research used a hedonic pricing model, and the results showed that restaurant reputation and the type of cuisine are important factors in pricing.
Another important factor influencing the success of the restaurant is people's opinion represented by reviews left, from which the rating of the restaurant is further formed. Since a restaurant is a place that provides a service, it is difficult to evaluate it before consumption. Customers feel insecure when choosing a restaurant, so it is natural for them to find out the opinions of other people before choosing a place (Luca, 2011). In the hospitality industry, the influence of word of mouth or WOM has been carefully studied and has been recognized as one of the most important sources of information when making decisions (Fogarty, 2012; Jeong and Jang, 2011; Lewis and Chambers, 2000; Litvin et al., 2008; Luca , 2011). With the increasing ubiquity of the Internet, new forms of disseminating people's opinions have appeared.
  Information about restaurants is now available on the Internet, and anyone connected to the Internet can easily find restaurant reviews, menus, prices, etc. In addition, expert reviews such as Michelin star ratings and food critics are easily accessible to restaurant customers as well as online reviews, food blogs, and Google reviews. Various forms of online communities and social networks have become sources of e-WOM. According to a forecast for 2011 prepared by the National Restaurant Association (www.restaurant.org), 59% of adults use Internet for various restaurant related events, and 58% view restaurant menu on their websites. About a third of adult Americans used online surveys to select restaurants they had never visited before. Due to the wide geographical reach, speed, convenience and accessibility of the Internet, e-WOM has become more powerful than traditional WOM in decision-making (Jeong and Jang, 2011).
In 2010 Zhang Z., Ye Q., Law R., and Li Y. examined various types of online reviews. Their results show that customer-generated ratings on the quality of food and services, as well as the number of online consumer reviews, have a significant positive relationship with the popularity on the Internet (i.e. the number of website visits) of restaurants.
In a study, Luca M. (2011) analyzed the impact of customer reviews on restaurants and found that there was a positive relationship between the number of stars (rating) and restaurant revenue. Restaurants with more reviews tend to contribute to the active participation of online reviewers than restaurants with fewer reviews. Thus, an online customer review can serve as an indicator of a restaurant’s reputation. Consequently, this study uses a hedonic pricing model to provide a better understanding of the important attributes of a restaurant, which, in turn, can provide an explanation of the pricing mechanisms and determining factors of average prices in the restaurant business (restaurant industry).

Methods
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study. 
The general specification for the hedonic price equation is as follows:
where P is the price, and  are the various attributes of the product / service. The model includes linear, logarithmic, double logarithmic and semi-logarithmic forms, and all these forms of hedonic price models are considered as ordinary least-square regression models.
For data analysis, a regression analysis will be used - a statistical method for studying the influence of one or more independent variables on a dependent variable. 
Since variables with different scales were chosen, as well as dummy variables, it is necessary to find the optimal hedonic pricing model among the available forms, such as logarithmic, double logarithmic and linear logarithmic. 
To determine the best form, a similar study was analyzed (Yim E.S. et al, 2014) in which the best form was found, which is taken as the basis of this study.
One-way analysis of variance was also used to analyze the data. It is based on the assumption that some variables are considered as causes (factors), and others as consequences. The objective of this analysis is to investigate the relationships between qualitative and quantitative variables. At the same time, qualitative one’s act as factors, and quantitative ones as a result.
A desk research conducted was carried out, according to which independent variables were selected to build the hedonic pricing model. The selection includes information about the services of each restaurant and its characteristics: location (address and district of the city), number of stars, number of reviews left, type of cuisine, institution status, business lunch availability, wi-fi availability, parking availability, delivery options, as well as payment methods and the average check per guest. The average check in a restaurant has become a dependent variable; type of cuisine, location (district), institution rating, status, number of reviews and availability of business lunch, wi-fi, parking, delivery and payment methods have become independent variables.
As for catering market analysis of Perm restaurants, it is worth mentioning that there is no accurate data of the particular companies. This means that the data will be collected from secondary sources such as 2GIS and Google Maps.  

Results anticipated
The research results will be obtained with the methods mentioned. These predicted results are based on the same type of the evidence as in the literature reviewed. However, the are we come difficulties when estimating the regression equation. There is a possibility that the same factors will not show any dependence on the dependent variable in this regard, the regression equation will have errors.
My study can add to the research by inclusion of only those factors that have a stronger connection with the dependent variable in the linear regression equation.

Conclusion
Eventually, the general aim of the research proposal is to identify factors affecting the formation of the average check in Perm restaurants. This study contributes to the understanding the dependence of factors and the size of the average check when analyzing a restaurant, using an econometric model.
In particular, this study discusses hypotheses about the impact of ratings and reviews on the value of the average check, and whether the location and type of cuisine affects pricing.
If the implementation of the model considered in this study is successful in practice it will be possible in the future to complicate the model by including additional factors. It is also possible to conduct a similar study for another area of entertainment.
At this stage the main thing is to build the model in question and test it to verity its effectiveness.