Introduction
Background. The problem of determining factors influencing profitability is considered a valid topic of research because profitability as an indicator is one of the tools that represents firm’s performance. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: econometrics and financial analysis. Both of these approaches use financial statements but their main difference is in methodology. Another significant aspect about affecting profitability which makes the concept of choosing the right determinants stand out is that there are a lot to choose from and all of them are effective in their own way. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern profitability studies have special appreciation for measures that are closely tied to firm’s capital structure as they reflect another dimension of a firm’s strategy that is of an interest to investors. The problem of choosing between firm’s internal financial indicators and external economical measures has been widely investigated over the past few decades, however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of these indexes into the context of a firm’s financial wellbeing.

Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: what factors and to what degree they affect financial position of a firm. There are several scholars who make an attempt to examine this problem from a profitability standpoint, while others consider firm’s value and firm’s assets value. This all determines the aim of the research. The aim of the study is to identify and evaluate a set of factors affecting firm’s profitability measure. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
-to analyze the concept of factor affecting profitability 
-to identify factors affecting profitability
-to make up a set of predominant affecting profitability to include in a regression model
-to predict the factors’ influence

Delimitations of the Study. The study findings will be limited by the selection of the firms. The sample will include only Russian manufacturing firms and only those which have disclosed accounting and financial data. To eliminate significant macroeconomical effects of 2007-2008 financial crisis the dataset in this research will be limited to the period 2009-2018.

Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first task to deal with is to analyze the concept of firm financial position in order to understand which index is most suitable to evaluate it. This will allow to analyze the key factors that might affect this index and build the model that would show their significance. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile to analyze the effects of growth, liquidity and firm size on the structure of a firms’ capital as it might affect profitability index. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for the management of any firm that falls in conditions of this research since the knowledge of what could affect firm’s profitability could result in a higher performance.
Definitions of Key Terms. Profitability – “Profitability ratios are a class of financial metrics that are used to assess a business's ability to generate earnings relative to its revenue, operating costs, balance sheet assets, and shareholders' equity over time, using data from a specific point in time.” (Will Kenton, 2019)
Liquidity – “Liquidity ratios are an important class of financial metrics used to determine a debtor's ability to pay off current debt obligations without raising external capital. Liquidity ratios measure a company's ability to pay debt obligations and its margin of safety through the calculation of metrics including the current ratio, quick ratio, and operating cash flow ratio.” (Adam Hayes, 2019)

Literature Review
Scientific articles describing the determinants of profitability identify as the most strongly influencing a number of factors: firm size, sales growth, market power, investment and efficiency. Asimakopoulos, Samitas and Papadogonas (2009) tried to analyze the determinants of profitability using a sample of Greek non-financial organizations in the Athens stock market. They found that profitability was positively influenced by factors such as the size of the company, growth in sales and investment, and negatively influenced by financial leverage and current assets.
One of the main determinants of a firm's profitability can be considered firm’s size, based on the concept of economies of scale from the neoclassical model of the firm. This effect describes a decrease in average production costs with increasing output, and according to this concept, a positive relationship should be expected between an increase in the size of the company and an increase in the profitability of the enterprise. In most studies examining the effect of firm size on profitability, results have confirmed the positive effect of firm size on profitability.
For example, Vijayakumar and Tamizhselvan (2010) using a semi-log model specification on a sample of 15 South Indian companies revealed a positive relationship between firm size and profitability, using several measures for firm size (revenue and total assets).
The influence of firm size on profitability was also investigated by Lee (2009) who was using panel data analysis on a sample of 7000 American firms. He has found that firm size is significant in explaining profitability.
Ozgulbas, Koyuncugil and Yilmaz (2006) studied the influence of the size of a company on the efficiency of its activity using the example of companies operating on the Turkish Stock Exchange in Istanbul from 2000 to 2005. As a result of the study, it was found that the effectiveness of large firms is much higher compared to smaller firms. In a similar study, Jonsson (2007) examined the relationship between profitability and company size using organizations operating in Iceland as an example. The results of the analysis showed that in comparison with small firms, large ones have a higher profitability.
Alongside with the size of the firm, one can also consider the growth rate of the firm. It is widely believed that there is a relationship between the growth rate of a firm and profitability (Coad, 2007, 2009; Goddard, Molyneux, and Wilson, 2004). There are a number of studies that claim that growth rate has a positive effect on profitability. For example, the Kaldor-Verdoorn Act (Kaldor, 1966; Verdoorn, 1949) states that faster production growth increases labor productivity due to increasing returns, and in turn increases productivity through increased profitability. As a firm grows in size, a larger firm can take advantage of the economies of scale and increase its profits. Consequently, growth helps increase profitability.
Another important determinant of profitability can be liquidity. For a firm to survive on the market, it is important to have good liquidity, since the inability to pay debts at the time set by the contract could negatively affect the credit rating, could lead to decrease in goodwill, and in the long run lead to default and liquidation of the company (Bhavet, 2011). Too low or excess liquidity levels directly affect profitability (Idowu and Ogundipe, 2012). For example, if liquidity levels are higher than necessary with stable market risk, it is becoming a source of inefficient use of resources, which negatively affects profitability.
However, what should be taken into account is that there are many studies suggesting that liquidity and profitability have a negative relationship. For example, Nobanee and AlHajjar (2005) examined the relationship between working capital management and profitability in a sample of 2,123 Japanese non-financial firms between 1990 and 2004. They found that managers can increase the company's profitability by shortening the cash conversion cycle, the average collection period and the inventory turnover ratio. Sadlovska and Viswanathan (2007) obtained similar results, expressing the opinion that companies with the best results have liquidity 5-6 times lower than companies with medium and low results.
On the other hand, some studies show a direct and positive relationship between liquidity and profitability. For example, Shin and Soenen (1998) argue that a firm can increase its revenue with an increase in the money conversion cycle, which can also increase profitability. Also, Deloof (2003) confirms this proposition by stating that a longer cash conversion cycle can lead to an increase in profitability, since an increase in the cycle leads to a higher level of sales. Samiloglu and Demirgunes (2008) investigated this relationship using Turkish firms as an example and found that revenue growth positively affects profitability, which in turn confirms that liquidity and profitability are related, as liquidity increases with revenue growth.

Methods
Most of studies that was mentioned in literature review has obtained their results using the panel data analysis method. Panel data analysis is a statistical method that is commonly used in econometrics and social studies. It is used to analyze two-dimensional data. Usually panel data is collected with time as the first dimension and subject as the second dimension. There are reasons why panel data analysis is widely used by researchers in the field of profitability. Panel data is more appropriate than cross-sectional data for studying the dynamics of change while by combining data in two dimensions, panel data gives more data variation, less collinearity and more degrees of freedom. And what is more important panel data can minimize the effects of aggregation bias, from aggregating firms into broad groups.

Results Anticipated
The research results will be obtained with the methods mentioned. It is expected that firm size and growth rate will positively influence the profitability. These predicted results are based on the same type of the evidence as in the literature reviewed. However, effects of leverage and liquidity are harder to predict as there is a significant amount of studies asserting positive influence but there is roughly the same amount of studies that consider it negative.

Conclusion
Based on the literature reviewed it was concluded that the profitability is widely accepted method of evaluation of firm’s financial position. Main determinants of profitability were identified as firm size, firm growth, sales growth, leverage and liquidity. Based on previous researches possible results were predicted.


