Introduction 
Background. The problem of the investment project valuation is considered a controversial issue in economics. The project is the valuation of an investment project - the innovative start-up, that is presented as a platform for creating and promoting various events to an interested audience.   Nowadays, the issue mentioned of evaluation has been studied and worked out very poorly both in Russian and in foreign literature. Mainly, there are articles and monographs which have written directly by individuals with experience in venture capital investments.
Investment Project Valuation, in particular, the evaluation of start-ups - young companies, which are operating in new or emerging markets, having a very short history and so far without a profit, but promising a high rate of revenue growth and a high return on investment ratio, are becoming increasingly relevant for investors, entrepreneurs , credit organizations, insurance companies and other market participants. 
The complexity of assessing (determining the value) of a young rapidly growing business is due to the fact that the history of the company is very short, there is no profit, and sometimes no revenue, while the founders of the company and investors are interested in dynamic development and strive to capture a significant part of the market or create new markets.
An efficiently working venture capital industry is able to provide investments for the most dynamically developing innovative young enterprises. Moreover, it can contribute to increased competitiveness and growth of the Russian economy.

Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: determination of the investment project evaluation method, while there are no specific methodology and method for making such a valuation.
This all determines the aim of the research. The aim of the study is predicting the investment project valuation of start - up. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
1. To analyze the concept start-ups;
2. To consider the methods for valuating of start-ups and review their features;
3. To consider criteria of effectiveness of start-up;
4.To determine the cost of start – up and evaluate its effectiveness for the investor;
Delimitations of the Study. The study findings will be limited by the specifics of the market being studied, as well as the budget which is intended for the creation of this project. Moreover, the project involves limited resources and labor.
Professional Significance. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for investors and businessmen. A correct and competent investment of money is impossible without research on the valuation of investment projects. It is especially important to correctly assess the investment attractiveness of start-up companies, which will increase their chances of success and investment efficiency.

Literature Review 
In this part of the project proposal the way of studying the existing literature will be developed. As far as investment project valuation is not a new phenomenon, it is necessary to analyze features of evaluating start-ups and consider the techniques that the authors suggest. Moreover, it is necessary to consider the definition of the concept of a start-up. 
Various researchers of the venture business environment offer different interpretations of the concept of “start-up”. 
So, according to one of the interpretations of domestic authors, a start-up means an enterprise that was created specifically for the implementation of an innovative project (Rogova E.M., Tkachenko E.A., Fiyaksel E.A, 2011). Foreign author Steve Blank offers a more detailed and complete definition of a start-up, which he sees as a company at the initial stage of its activity, organized with the money of the founders and striving to increase its capitalization as the product develops, in the hope that demand will appear for it (Blank S., Dorf B., 2012). Another foreign author defines a start-up as an organization designed to create something new in conditions of extreme uncertainty (Ries E., 2011). Kashirin and Semenov (2007) in their work focus on the small size of a start-up company. Each of these definitions is complementary. Summarizing all the above interpretations, you can define a start-up as a small company, which is at the initial stage of its development and aimed at commercializing an innovative project. This work suggests using this definition.
Evaluation of companies has been the subject of close study of researchers for many years, which allowed us to develop a number of generally accepted methods for its implementation. The first publications on the methodology for evaluating start-ups in the form of separate chapters devoted mainly to the application of the income approach appeared more than 15 years ago in the monographs Riley R., Schweiss R., Damo	ran A., Slee R. in English. Modern private equity and venture investment valuation guidelines, and Private Equity Funds and Other Investment Companies have not yet been translated from English into Russian. 
Nowadays, there is no developed and accessible methodology for assessing such objects developed by a wide range of Russian-speaking users. These issues are covered in professional literature in Russian very, very incompletely. We note a number of domestic publications on this topic. An analysis of the basic and specific characteristics of start-ups that distinguish them from other companies is given in an article by Nedzvetsky N. S. in 2007, publications of Kunitsyna N. N., Khalyavskaya T. V. in 2016, Sukhanova I. G. in 2018, Silaev A. A. in 2012, Altova I.P. in 2009. 
The choice of assessment methods in the first place depends on the stage at which start-up. Each new investment project goes through several stages of development, together they make up the start-up life cycle. At each stage, various factors are observed that affect the performance of the company. These factors include strategy, structure, organizational and administrative issues, marketing, etc.
Since the main feature of Internet start-ups is the innovativeness of the product, it makes sense to work with a product-oriented classification of the life stages of a young company. We give a brief description of the methods of assessment. The method based on the price of Recent Investment. 
The essence of this method is the recognition of the value of an asset equal to the amount paid for it in the recent past.
The method of comparative multipliers
This is implemented in accordance with the following algorithm:
• A selection of comparable companies
• Determination of the basic parameter to which the multiplier will be calculated (such parameters may be - profit before taxes and interest, revenue, number of employees)
• Multiplier calculation for all companies in the sample
• Calculation of the weighted average of all multipliers
• Calculation of company valuation based on the forecast value of the parameter and the calculated average multipliers
There are some advantages and disadvantages of using this method (table 1). 
Industry Valuation Benchmarks
In general, this method is similar to the method of market multiples, but the basis for comparing companies is operational rather than financial indicators (such as the number of website visitors, number of hotel beds, number of customers, etc.). The method is used in calculating the value of companies in those market segments for which the assessment of companies by investors is specific to operational indicators (mainly used only as verification).
Discounted Cash Flow Method
The method considers the traditional and most common method of evaluating a business, but for start-ups, its use is limited, as it is very difficult to predict the cash flows of a start-up with sufficient accuracy. With this method, the valuation of the enterprise is the discounted amount of all cash flows for the period under review. The discount rate is calculated on the basis of the risk-free rate, as well as additional risks (for example, country-specific) and the target profitability of the investor. There are several methods for determining the discount rate, but the most common are the capital asset valuation model (CAPM) and the weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
Empirical or scoring methods
These methods include: the Berkus Method, the Risk Factor Summation Method, Scorecard Valuation Method, as well as their modifications. The methods are used to evaluate start-ups that are not yet profitable. The main drawback of empirical methods is subjectivity, and the complexity of their application is in the low availability of data on Russian companies. For companies with profits, scoring methods are usually not used. 
Venture capital method
When assessing using the venture capital method, there is no need to forecast cash flows in detail. The calculation uses the expected at the time of exit investor value of the company (or expected financial performance of the company and corresponding multiplier), term investment and required return. 
Valuation of fast-growing companies requires a thorough analysis of the market, collecting information about transactions and valuations other industry companies potential by investors. 
Some authors noted that in assessing the value of the venture object Investing should make the most of all available valuation methods.

Methods 
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study. There are various methods for Investment Project Valuation. Moreover, their use depends on the stage at which start-up. The venture capital method and the relative method require the collection of information on similar companies, which is impossible. Based on the available data, the most optimal method is the cash flow discounting method described by Asvat Damodaran (Damodaran A., 2009). Moreover, this method includes risk accounting, which allows the investor to obtain the most realistic indicators and hedge. However, to assess the investment attractiveness of the project, not its final cost, but the cost of capital will be calculated. The final criterion of attractiveness is the internal rate of return (IRR). If the cost of capital exceeds the internal rate of return, then the project is considered unprofitable and rejected. Thus, to apply this method, it is necessary to calculate two rates: WACC and IRR. The forecast period is 3 years. This period is considered optimal for the start-up to pay off and begin to make a profit. It is worth noting that in addition to evaluating the cost of the start-up, we will need to consider the industry as a whole, note the competitors of our project and our advantages. When evaluating different methods, you can look at company from different points of view, get range of value, analyze various aspects related with the market situation, see the strengths and weaknesses.
At this stage, the main thing is to calculate the market value of creating a start-up And in the case of getting the successful result, the start-up could be introduced to work. 

Results Anticipated 
The stated purpose of this research is to Invest Project Valuation, especially evaluation of creation the start-up. The findings may have valuable implications to investors. The outcomes of this study may be useful for scientists due to a lack of knowledge about the problem under consideration. We plan to get an analysis of industry competitors and highlight the key advantages of our project over others. The main result should be a deep and broad analysis related to assessing the effectiveness of this start-up, as well as the costs of opening and maintaining this project at the first time of work.

Conclusion
The growing role of the venture investment market is due to changes in the structure of the modern economic system. Developed companies often lose competition when resources for fast scaling become available to faster and risk-ready enterprises. The venture capital industry has room to grow, since in most countries, including Russia, its potential is not fully realized. It is worth noting that the underdevelopment of the methodology valuation of venture investment objects, lack of proper technological and economic analysis lead to serious errors in determining the value of fast-growing companies.