Introduction
The problem of the web-site quality measurement is considered one of the most controversial issues in business-analytics. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: application of special IT-metrics of web-site visibility and subjective assessment of web-sites structure and design. Both of these approaches have the web-site quality measurement in common, but their main difference is the analyses quantitative or qualitative. 
Another significant aspect about the web-site quality measurement, which makes the concept of the web-site value stand out among other economic issues, is that there are different concepts of the Internet page value measurement. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern economics studies have special appreciation for comparison of these approaches as they reflect another dimension of the website value that is impact on the internet page quality. The problem the web-site value measurement has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of quantitative metrics of the web-site visibility into the context of web-site development costs, highlighting future the web-site value.
Research Hypothesis. It is hypothesized that the analysis of the data and the regression analysis will reveal that there are some main factors of companies’ performance increase. They are the quantitative metrics of web page visibility and web-site value. It assumes that there is direct positive relationship between the web-site quality characteristics and companies’ performance.

Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: the problem deals with assessment of the impact of the quality of a company's website on its performance. There are several scholars who make an attempt to examine it from the management standpoint. This all determines the aim of the research. The aim of the study is to identify and analyze a set of factors affecting Russian companies’ performance.
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
to analyze the concept of the web-site quality measurement
to identify the factors of web-site quality affecting companies’ performance based on a regression model 
to predict the factors’ influence. 

Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be limited by the quantity of companies. The number of observations will vary due to merging, renaming and inclusion of the new companies chosen by the journal "Expert", so the sample will include only those which have information about all the used variables.
Over the past ten years, IT use has changed dramatically. The most significant changes in e-commerce were observed in 2007-2010, when companies started using the Internet to attract customers, and began to develop websites. In this regard, one more limitation is the time period 2010-2017.
Moreover, there will be limitations of the theoretical framework of the study. To evaluate the regression equation the OLS model or model with fixed effects will be used because contemporary researches support the idea that this model has a high analytical power.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first tasks to deal with is to analyze the concept of the web-site quality measurement in order to differentiate commonalities and differences in approach to the concept of the website value. This will allow to analyze the key factors of internet page visibility and build the model of IT metrics and web-site value to companies’ performance. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile analyzing the IT metrics of websites reliability. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to examine financial factors to formulate probable measures to be taken for effective increase of the firms' performance. 
The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for scholars, students of economics faculties, economists who research influence of IT on companies’ financial results. Since the issue studied is of utmost economic concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in business-analytics studies, and economic planning including managers and stockholders.
Definitions of Key Terms. 
Web-site quality is defined as SEO tools of the Internet page (Aljumah, Kouchay, 2015) 
Company performance is a subjective measure of how effective a firm can use assets from its primary mode of business and generate . It is also a measure of a firm's overall financial health over a given period (Taylor, Kent, 2004)
The regression model is the simple linear regression model, which can be expressed by the following equation: (Thoma et al, 2015)

Literature Review
Over the past half century, the study of web-site quality has been under increasing scrutiny of theorists and intellectuals. This issue is analyzed in numerous publications. The theory of economics has a tenet that intellectual capital does not directly cause an increase of companies’ performance. Consequently, understanding of the factors that influence companies’ performance will allow to predict its increase or decrease. The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to increasing companies’ value, which can be divided into resource-based view and intellectual capital studies. They will be reviewed consistently.
The academic tradition on resource-based view researches dates back to the beginning of the twentieth century. The first attempt to assess market value of company was made by Rumelt R.P.  in 1991. The work on resource-based view gave a broad theoretical basis for further research. This approach was study what influence firm value. The main contrast with the theory of Michael Porter is differentiation among industries. Intra-industry differences in profits prevail over inter-industry differences in the ratio of 7:1. However, from the contemporary point of view,  resource-based view examination of the companies performance seems to be preoccupied with the factors which characterized industry company worked in, whereas dynamics studies aspects are neglected.  For an up-to-date analysis it is logical to turn to more recent publications by Stewart (2001), T. A. Stewart examined the dynamics of the market value. It changed from book value was explained approximately 95% of market value in 1978 to book value reflected only 28% of market value in 1998. The way of solving these problems, proposed by each scholar, is however different, due to the use of specific approaches. Professor Barney regards resources as an instrument to increase companies’ value; in that he considers it to be an elaborate form of intellectual capital. Resources are “all assets, capabilities, organizational processes, firm attributes, information, knowledge, etc. controlled by a firm that enable the firm to conceive of and implement strategies that improve its efficiency and effectiveness”. Resources can be characterized as VRIN:
Valuable (It enables a firm to implement strategies that improve its efficiency and effectiveness). 
Rare (Does not available to other competitors).
Imperfectly imitable (Does not easily implemented by others).
Non-substitutable (Does not able to be replaced by some other non-rare resource) (Barney, 1991).
Aljumah and Kouchay (2015) analyzed the website as a resource and determinants its’ properties. He considers that the website is a resource that is gaining importance in the digital economy; it should have VRIN features to create value.
The website is certainly valuable, because the web page helps company build communications with consumers and attract new consumers. It can increase the productivity and efficiency of the company. It is worth noting that the value of a web page is difficult to assess from a monetary point of view. The website is not rare. Any company with sufficient competencies can develop its own website or order its creation in professional company. Today, there are more than 1.94 billion websites (to the end of 2019). However, it is worth noting that the creation of websites is in demand among users of the Internet network. The website is unique, since the Internet page cannot be reproduced in exact form. It can be certainly created with exactly the same structure and even with the similar design (colors, fonts, etc.), however, there is a copyright law that prohibits copying and use of intellectual property. In addition, the domain name of the site, URL, company name, information about it, and content of the web page will be different for different companies. Nowadays, the website has no substitutes. The company’s page on social networks as well as the site the opportunity to build communication with consumers in a digital environment, however, access to social networks is implemented by companies with a purpose different from the purpose of using the website (Taylor, Kent, 2004).
Recent empirical investigations take the previous theoretical background into account. After several years of studying this area, new institutional indicators have been added to the list of variables that were commonly used by many researchers.
In the article the emphasis is made on the wide appeal of resource-based view to various companies in different industry. The scholar suggests that each company in any industry had a more or less significant competitors’ advantage of their resources to increase each market value than it has hitherto been acknowledged (Melo et al, 2017). This works, therefore, shed new light on the issues under question.
As far as website is concerned as firms’ intellectual resource. One of the most comprehensive surveys so far has been the monograph by Wang and Xu, who argues that Internet page provide competitors advantage (Wang, Xu, 2017). The value of this work is impossible to overestimate. The data carefully gathered by Canadian University can be now considered in business-analytics perspective in terms of understanding factors influence companies’ performance through features. A similar study belongs to the academic editor of Illinois’ university. In his survey, he concentrates on the web metrics attempting to explain influence on companies’ performance (Thoma et al. 2015).
Web metrics can be divided into groups depending on their purpose. The focus will be on quantitative metrics characterizing the popularity, reliability of the site and the level of trust in it (Merono-Cerdan, Soto-Acosta, 2007). Also, search engine optimization methods were chosen, since in previous studies, many authors have identified the presence of influence:
Authority
Domain authority
Trust flow
Mozrank
Semrush
Visibility
Alexa rank
Yandex indexing
Google indexing (Appendix 1) (Molodchik et al, 2018)
Also, one of the indicators of the quality of a site is the web site value.
In addition, it is important to observe foreign researches in this field. They used the similar approach to investigate this issue, however, the scientists focused on big international companies but not domestic companies.
Thus, over the last couple of decades the scholars’ interest in applying a resource-based view to the website has been increasing steadily. The problems raised in the researches also tend to become more and more diverse, from web-metric definition to determine control variable (industry, age, size and etс.) (Smithson et al, 2011). There is a trend to narrow the problems to particular aspects of resource-based view and functioning of the website as firms’ intellectual resource. None of the present-day works on business analytics can be defined as a complex study encompassing different levels of influence between website metrics and firms’ performance.

Methods
There are various methods for examining the influence of the financial and non-financial firms’ factors on the company’s performance. Their use depends on the purpose of the research and data.
In many studies, researchers recommend working with the panel data type. The panel data shows a variety of factors over the certain period influences the company’s performance. However, in this study I will use the cross-section type, because pass-through regression model allows to analyze panel data without the time parameter - the period from 2010 to 2019. Since the Journal “Expert” choose number of leader companies every year, the original sample will be update with actual information. If in the database there are outliers, it will be excluded. The data on financial results of Russian companies will be provided by the Intangible asset’s laboratory HSE Perm. Website indicators will be collected by using the open data source provided by the pr-cy.com and websitecost.ru. Further, I will verify that our sample satisfies the Gauss-Markov’s conditions. 
There are many empirical approaches to analyze the cross-section data. The first concept is to evaluate model including the lag factors. This analysis of cross-sectional annual data could lead to biased estimates. The second way to work with fixed effect model includes both cross-sectional data and a time parameter. 
In the studies reviewed above, most scientists used the fixed effects model. The reason why this method is appropriate for the research is the use of a fixed number of the web metrics and the ability to estimate the influence of missing variables (Espadas et al, 2008). However, the model with fixed effects will not be evaluated in this study, because of strong correlation between web-metrics, as it causes multicollinearity.

Results Anticipated
The research results will be obtained with the methods mentioned. It is expected that the website’s metrics, such as Alexa rank, Mozrank, Domain authority, Trust flow, Semrush, Google and Yandex indexing will positively influence companies’ performance. This will allow to identify the positive influence of web-site value and explain website’s developing costs. These predicted results are based on the same type of evidence as in the literature reviewed.
However, there are some difficulties when estimating the regression equation. There is a possibility that some of the factors may duplicate each other when considering the correlation matrix, also multicollinearity is expected between web-site value and metrics of the Internet page (Google indexing, Domain authority and Mozrank) as it was in the case of Wang Fang, Vaughan Liwen (2014). My study can add to the research by inclusion of only those factors that have a stronger connection with the dependent variable in the linear regression equation. Or I could overestimate the regression equation using lag values for the factors and compare the estimates obtained for regression, such as ROA, financial leverage and etc (Molodchik et al, 2018). 

Conclusion
This study contributes to the understanding of factors that influence the company’s value by using the model built on the basis of big data on leader Russian companies chosen by the Journal “Expert”. In particular, this paper examines the hypotheses about the impact of the website quality and the financial characteristics of the company for the base period on the values of financial results of these company. If the implementation of the model examined in this study proves successful in practice, in the future it will be possible to complicate the model by including additional factors. It is also possible to conduct a similar study for small and medium size companies. 
At this stage, the main thing is to build the analyzed model, as well as to test it to verify its effectiveness using the Gauss-Markov’s conditions. And in the case of successful testing, the model will be examined on small and medium companies to confirm the website quality effect.


