Theoretical background and literature review
Today business communications appears to be a quiet  popular subject to study. We can easily find a lot of information on this topic however a lot of the researchers   and authors in this  field  keep saying that it’s not enough. Moreover they mention that there are still blank spots in this particular study area  because as far as the sphere of the business changes there always changes that appears immediately at the since of business communications. That links to a number of changes in this area over and over again.  Here we can state a problem that gives a motivation for the research: even having a significant background on the topic we keep staying behind , because as modern scientists mark,  business communication is an issue  that need to be updated as often as only it’s possible. The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of  literature however there is always a gap between theory and practice. 
Varner (2000) in his article about Intercultural Business Communication talks about business as one of the elements of more complicated structure.  According to Varner  the structure by itself includes cultural background as the base level, intercultural issues as the main level and business environment  as the top.  More detailed studying of this theory leads to the ambiguous concluding. Most of the theories and studies consider business communication to be a separate subject. However in that case there is always a gap between the ideal theoretical model of communication in business and the real situation. This particular gap gives a number of opportunities for the deeper studying of the topic. What happens in reality is the absence of link between the levels of communication structure in the organization or particular business case. In attempt to build a  perfect models of human behavior traditional concepts refers to already known information about typical physiological features. But what those models are missing is the fact that not only they have to reflect the principles of human behavior but also consider the aspects of the external business environment.  
In a 2006 article, Mitchell defined the models of  business communications as a «changing constant» (p. 57). By this, he means that the basic principles of negotiating at the intercultural level are always going to be the same. These principles connected with the intention of the both sides to achieve the desired goals with the minimum loss for themselves. But at the same time these internal principles are strongly depended on the external circumstances   and those  are the next subject to learn in this field. Basically what author points out is the idea that we can not use the standard models of negotiation for each case. Every time a new  local research need to be conducted in order to achieve a needed result in negotiation. Studying the external factors that have an influence on the business negotiation takes us on the global level of researching the problem. Not only we need to consider a particular business as a separate unit but also connect it with the global system as a one whole. This is the only way how the negotiators can see the real picture of their needs and also understand the reasons and needs of their partners  behavior. Combining the multilevel structure of  business negotiation mentioned above with the flexible models of human behavior,  we have a full and functional perception of business intercultural communication that opens up a big opportunity to further study.
The need for the further research is based on the world globalization and tendency to worldwide cooperation. Some authors continue to study and analyze this sphere because of the importance of intercultural collaboration. Without a good knowledge and successful scheme for cross-cultural communication business today appears to be at the zone of risk. What it the risk? In this case the risk is a sustainability. Learning the principles and rules of the cross-cultural communication is not an obligation nowadays but a necessity. In this context  Drew, Herbig  (1998)  highlight the importance of  the subject of the research  «With two-way trade in goods and services amounting to well over $1 Trillion dollars, no part of the economy is sacrosanct and can avoid the international dimension.» (p.43). And this tendency had it’s  beginning  almost  20 years ago. By seeing the perspectives of the future we can predict the importance and need of the research.  Drew and Herbig in their article also emphasize  the key aspect of the cross-cultural communication that is appears  to be an Understanding.  «When two people communicate, they rarely talk about precisely the same subject, for effective meaning is flavored by each person's own cognitive world and cultural conditioning. When negotiating internationally, this translates into anticipating culturally related ideas that are most likely to be understood by a person of a given culture. Discussions are frequently impeded because the two sides seem to be pursuing different paths of logic; in any cross-cultural context, the potential for misunderstanding and talking past each other is great» (p.52).
There may be a set of additional factors, such as personal perception of different culture, acceptance of another traditions and patterns, and finding a touch point  between conflicting opinions.  Allwood (2000)  helped turn study of cross-cultural communication into experimental science using the virtual reality as a space for conducting the research. In the situation of Face to Face communication people are tend to hide most of the real emotions. In order to create a good impression. What comes to business, according to the results in a face to face negotiation more than 70% of the decisions can not be made at the first meeting. This fact  increases the importance of business communication. The results of the first ,meeting have the direct impact on the further business partnership. In order to be successful at this level the partners need to follow certain rules.  Tinsley  (2001) observes  the main concepts of the successful negotiation process in business. The author puts on the first place the importance of knowing the goals of your partner. Learning the motives and principles of your partner most of the time as much important as knowing your own. According to this research the biggest mistake of the participants of the negotiation is the absence of understanding the different models of business and culture. Two companies or opponents won’t be able to find the solution that will satisfy both sides unless they know what exactly the opponent wants from him. They also have to understand what stands behind these motives and this is where we can see the importance of knowing different cultures , principles and rules. 
The literature on this subjects is concerned with different ways and models on how to make the business negotiations work. But what is giving the limitless opportunity for studying is the ability to compare and combine all this information as a one. Putting the usual business communication on the international level opens up an important subject  for studying. By analyzing the pros and cons of a different negotiation  models  we are getting closer to the  improved model that actually will work not only in theory but in reality.    

Predicted outcomes
The conclusions of the study will help to summaries the existing theories on the communication and business negotiation in the cross cultural environment. Reveal the topical and modern methods ,  proof or refute their efficacy based on the real data analysis. The result of the research will also give the opportunity to evaluate the future tendencies of the investigated topic. Moreover, giving the understanding that the predicted outcomes of this research  does not make the problem go away  gives the directions on the further studying on how to reduce the gap between theoretical models of business communications and real process of negotiation nowadays. Most of the benefits out of this research are based on the complex understanding of the problem. This allows to implement the theoretical aspects of the  cross-cultural communication  from multiple sides. 

Methodology and procedure
The research methodology will be based on the qualitative and quantitative analysis. The main goal of using the qualitative methods is to collect the needed information for the further analysis, to compare different opinions and views on the topic. to develop the understanding of the problems that also will show the opportunities and limitations of this research. Qualitative analysis also helps to find the  particular aspects for the further quantitative analysis. Before collecting the data we need to know the exact area of searching and information that has to be studied. Some common methods include literature analyzing, operating of special terminology, data collecting and processing. Before working with the data we need to make sure that all aspects of the research subject are structured and investigated. The statistic information on the cross-cultural communication can be collected by using the focus group. The main purpose is to understand what are the methods are being used today for business negotiating and communicating, what is the percentage of successful negotiations that are based on the traditional theoretical methods. And how is the «Trick gap» between ideal theoretical models and real negotiation process, that is considered to be one of the main aspects of this research, influence on the subject generally.

Limitations of the research
There are many gaps in  theoretical  understanding of the topic of these research. It is limited by the fact that all the literature analyzing can significantly differ from data base. This fact is still being a  motivation for further studying and a problem at the same time. The final results of the research can be used for the cross-cultural negotiation as a scientific topic but not as a solution for the particular business case. The reason for this limitation is a lack of recommendations and knowledge for the particular business example. In order to be able to answer this question we need to conduct a study on the private company information that is not allowed for the public access.