Introduction
Corporate sector is considered to be one of the most significant parts of banking worldwide. The popularity of bankruptcy prediction has increased since 1930s, thus a lot of methods have been created. Basic techniques and approaches are particularly observed in the works of E. Altman, W. Beaver, R. Merton and Russian A.M. Karminsky, A.A. Peresecky, M.V. Pomozanov authors. 
Corporate loans represent as a great part of Russian banking portfolio: they reached 56% of total credit portfolio and 39% of the Russian banks total assets in 2014. In the mean time growing the level of past due loans is presented. This situation leads to instability of the Russian financial system in general.
Besides, the lack of data and closed financial markets in Russia cause the problem of limited number of researches related to the corporate credit risk estimation. Thereby developing approaches connected with credit risk modeling is necessary for improving the quality of the Russian banking. 
A large part of lending in Russia is represented by construction industry companies. Nevertheless, construction is the most erupted industry (Repin, 2011). One of the main damaging symptoms appears in the lowering of mortgage crediting relative to the whole credits in Russia from 4.03% to 0.75% in 2008 and 2009 correspondingly. Moreover, according to the statistics of the Central Bank from 2014 to 2015, construction has become the leading industry for non-performing loans, the volume of debt increased by 138%. At the same time,  the crisis of 2007-2009 showed that the construction industry are highly susceptible to systemic risks and the impact of macroeconomic shocks, due to this fact interest in building sets of binary choice models for the construction sector is growing.
The crucial question is to examine the influence degree of various financial and non-financial indicators on the default probability of a company. Answer on this question comes to be extremely valuable for companies, banks and for other creditors in order to predict negative tendencies in company’s performance in advance.
Logit-model of binary choice with financial and macroeconomic data is applied as the key approach method of estimating default probability in this work. With the view of achieving the main purpose we need to perform the following tasks: collect the sample of financial indicators (profitability, financial stability, business activity etc.) for defaulted and non-defaulted companies and macro factors for the specified period; accomplish a statistical analysis to determine the risk-dominant financial indicators and risk sensitive macro factors; execute a multivariable analysis to build sets of logit-model based on risk-dominant financial indicators and macro factors; analyze the quality and predictive power of final model and represent the economic justification and interpretation of the observed relationship.

Theoretical background
In economic theory, the concept of the default probability is defined as a probability of situation when the borrower becomes unable to fulfill their loan obligations (Chesser, 1974).
The study of bankruptcy and business failure is a significant topic of research, especially as it applies in the construction industry. Construction takes a large part of lending in Russia. However, the number of construction companies’ failures has dramatically increased in this decade. Further deterioration can discompose Russian economy in a whole. Moreover, the lack of open data and closed financial markets in Russia raise the problem of limited number of researches connected with corporate credit risk estimation. That is why there is a significant need for providing studies related to evaluation of default probability. 
Certain particular qualities of the construction industry make it significantly different from other sectors, mainly the fact that its final result shows uniqueness, large assets and long cash conversion cycle.
In the past century, the most well-known method to estimate default probability was classical ratio analysis created by Beaver (1966). But this method has a weakness that appears in the cut-off point choice, thus its value totally depends on the sample. Nevertheless, this author showed the significance of investigations in this area and gave the base for next more advanced researches. 
Further in 1968 the multiple-factor linear model was pioneered by Altman (1968) based on the multiple discriminant analysis (MDA). This method is presented in order to find a linear combination of five factors which are selected with the correlation analysis. However, this model does not take into consideration all the financial indicators of a company. Altman improved his model in 1977 by taking into account more factors, for instance, company’s asset size and some other points. 
The investigation of bankruptcy probability with the help of binary choice models was shown for the first time by Ohlson (1980). Ohlson forecasted default for the year before the event based on the firms’ performance during the period of time from 1970 to 1976 years. In the list of variables were included indexes like profitability, share of borrowed capital in assets, net profit index etc. This method became extremely popular in current researching area. Binary choice models can be divided on two types: probit-model and logit-model. The main difference between them is kind of functional dependence: the standard normal distribution or the logistic distribution correspondingly. 
The probit-model was chosen in this sense of researches by Zmiewski (1984). Results that he obtained were sensitive to the industry effect, generality, and stability over time (Grise and Dugan, 2001). Koksal and Arditi (2004) built logit-model in their study and showed high predictive power; authors got 80.4% classification accuracy using multinominal logit-model.  
Besides, there are models relied on macroeconomic factors in researching practice. One of the advantages current models appears in taking into account the cyclical behavior of the economy. Furthermore, statistics on macroeconomic indexes is publicly available; this fact allows exploring default probability for different countries, industries and economic sectors.  
The basis of these models is defined by assumption that the probability of default is cyclical and increases in times of economic downturns. In general, models based on macroeconomic factors use regression analysis, including the analysis of macroeconomic indicators, such as unemployment, inflation, GDP etc. This type of models helps to estimate the company’s failure not only in the short term, but also taking into consideration the level of systemic risk. Studies using described method are (Sorensen, Zicchino, Hoggarth, 2005) and (Alves, 2005). A question whether macroeconomic indicators should be included in the model considered by Karminsky (2009) and Persecky (2005). 
However, there are really few academic studies analyzing the construction industry. Among the major works towards the construction see Kangari (1988), Kangari et al (1992), Russell and Jaselskis (1992), Landford et al (1993), Kale and Arditi (1999), Koksal and Arditi (2004), Singh and Tiong (2006).
Understanding the causes and symptoms business failure helps in the identification and early warnings of impending financial crisis. This is important not only to analysts and practitioners but to commercial loaning agency, bonding companies, investors, and even clients. It is also important to the firm in predicting its own financial distress to providing new direction of the firm.

Methods
In this study, I will use the research methodology based on the quantitative analysis. The main accounting-based method has been employed – logit-analysis in order to evaluate default probability of companies engaged in civil construction. To achieve the purpose of research it is essential to analyze all the variables that affect the solvency of the construction firms and to classify them for significance, importance and usefulness. I chose current technique and variables based on frequency testing in most well-known researches. 
Basic data including financial and non-financial indicators will be collected from official financial statements of construction firms, also from databases of firm’s financial statements like “Spark” and “Ruslana”. Indicators showing profitability, financial stability, business activity etc. may include return on assets, return on costs, return on investments, financial leverage, coefficient of autonomy, liquidity ratios, etc. Moreover, it was decided to expand model with macroeconomic factors like level of GDP and the level of money supply in Russia. Besides, several macroeconomic indicators specific for construction sector will also be presented at the list of used variables. They include business activity index for construction sector in Russia, the volume and the quantity of mortgage loans, the volume of overdue mortgage loans in Russia. All macroeconomic data will be obtained from open statistic recourses, for instance, “Federal State Statistics Service”. 
Only after doing this, it will be possible to build our model with a help of econometric software “Stata” and figure out to what degree every indicator affects the default probability of construction companies. Then the model predictive power should be assessed using ROC-curve tool. 

Predicted outcomes
After accounting all coefficients and evaluating model predictive power results will be described in economic theory context. It will be defined what indicators should be taken into consideration by firms and creditors to prevent business failure in advance and why. Obtained results can be used by firms to identify negative tendencies and provide new strategies for improvement their performance. Pointed out information is also extremely significant for banking activity. Because banking sector takes a large part of Russian economy in general. Their successful performance makes it possible to keep economy in stability. Thus, banks and other creditors should be able to identify potential bankrupts and reject their application for a loan. 

Limitation of research
The problem of probability default estimation using accounting methods developed in academic literature. Besides, some aspects of specific features of construction industry may need additional investigation. Construction output is the consequence of a project production system in which the result is referred to demanding locations. The same value of buildings constructed is strongly influenced by demand and place. For these reasons, the success of a construction company depends a lot on factors unrelated to the accounting business and the use of analysis of financial statements. Activities that construction firms carry out are heterogeneous not only in style or type but also in geographical location. That is why, it is difficult to analyze the value and, as a result, the default probability of the construction firms through a single standardized method.  
At last, the problem of endogeneity is appeared, i.e. there may be a set of additional factors which affect on default probability but I cannot apply them because of the lack of external data. For example, it can be the quality of construction materials used by a particular firm. Consequently, there is a necessity for further researches in current area.


