Introduction
Background of the study. Mortgage lending plays an important socio-economic role in providing the population with available private housing property. But, actually the housing mortgage lending market in Russia is a relatively young and weak market. Nowadays, the situation on the mortgage housing market is as follows: the total debt on the mortgage housing market continues to grow, it increased by 23.9% in 2019 compared to the previous year. Mortgage lending conditions remain quite onerous for most borrowers. Thus, banks need to improve the effectiveness of credit risk management policies, in particular, to predict the probability of default on mortgage lending, and to solve the problem of obtaining timely, reasonable and reliable information about the borrower's credit behavior and its intentions. New potentially useful source of data, the statistics of the Internet search queries will help to solve this problem. Internet search data has a number of distinct advantages. Firstly, they are extremely timely and cover a potentially large sample of respondents. Secondly, they are not reviewed in contrast to official statistics, so web queries can be trusted more when making forecasts (McLaren, 2011).

Problem statement. The issue in this proposal is currently an active idea of research aimed at getting empirical data about causal relationship between internet search queries and mortgage delinquency. There are several scholars, presented in the part Literature review of this study, who make an attempt to examine web queries as forecasting tools of mortgage default but only for American or European mortgage housing market. Consequently, this problem for Russian mortgage housing market is remained actual, acute and unsolved. This all determines the aim of the research. The aim of the study is to identify and analyze a set of factors affecting mortgage delinquency or default.
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
to classify the determinants affecting mortgage default;
to build the mortgage default risk index (MDRI) based on Internet search queries using the methodology proposed by M. Chauvet and co-authors (2016);
to identify the relationship between the MDRI and the mortgage delinquency;
to predict the MDRI’ influence.

Delimitations of the Study. The study findings will be limited by the feature of the collected data sample. First of all, the results will be characterized only to the Russian Federation. Then, one more limitation is the time period 2016-2020. Moreover, there will be limitations of the theoretical framework of the study. To evaluate the regression equation the vector autoregression model will be used because there are contemporary researches support the idea that this model has a highly predictable power than the other models of time series.
Professional Significance. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for lenders, homeowners, credit institutions, audit companies and professional real estate investors who want to get a timely view of performance and prospects in the housing and mortgage lending markets. Since the issue studied is of utmost economic, legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for everyone including researchers and practitioners from this field.

Definitions of Key Terms. According to Central Bank of Russia, 1) mortgage delinquency is arrears with overdue payments in the full amount for the maximum payment delay period in case of non-payment on the loan term (part of it); 2) default is the failure to repay a debt including interest of principal on loan or security (Statistical Yearbook "Housing (Mortgage) Loan Market in Russia", 2018). 

Literature review
Over the course of decades, the literature on mortgage repayment and default problems becomes more extensive and includes both theoretical and empirical researches. The large majority of studies have focused on the identification of the factors that affect the occurrence of mortgage delinquency and default. From a theoretical point of view, the main determinants of mortgage delinquency or default can be classified into the following three categories: 1) borrower’s characteristics; 2) terms of lending contract; and 3) macroeconomic factors. According to this classification the first type of mortgage default predictors was investigated in the article by Aristei, Gallo (2016), who argue that households which are headed by young, unemployed or immigrant have a higher probability of becoming mortgage debtors and they are more affected by the adverse economic conditions such as crisis. 
The terms of lending contracts can also be a contributing factor to mortgage defaults. These terms generally include loan-to-value ratios, loan periods, loan amounts, location of residence, and the age of the house. Fuster and Willen (2017) have examined the relationship between payment size and mortgage delinquency. The results show that reduction of the required payment amount by half declines the delinquency hazard by about 55 percent. 
The probability of a mortgage default is affected by not only characteristics of borrowers and lending contracts, but also macroeconomic factors. The economic downturn leads to unemployment of borrowers, declining prices for mortgaged property and increase of interest rates on loans, which, in turn, leads to the inability of borrowers to pay mortgage interest. Professor Gerardi and co-authors (2013) have identified and quantified, to the extent possible, the role that job losses play in default decisions. Overall, they conclude that individual unemployment is the strongest predictor of default because it increases the risk of mortgage default by 5-13 percentage points. A similar study belongs to researchers Mocceti and Viviano (2016). In their survey, they also concentrate on examining of the unemployment impact on mortgage delinquencies, but already on Italian housing market. The authors have reported that unemployment nearly double the level of individual crime of borrowers, expressed in the delay and non-payment of a mortgage loan to the banks. 
All of the articles described above have contributed significantly to academic literature that devoted mortgage housing market because understanding of the factors that influence mortgage delinquency or default allows to predict its increase or decrease. However, nowadays the understanding of this issue can be not enough, so increasingly frequently forecasting technologies based on modern achievements in the field of information infrastructure, especially the Internet, are used in the empirical literature. The actions of Internet users are recorded by various services and may be of interest for forecasting. From this point of view, it is a short step to the conclusion that what people are searching for today predicts what they will do in the near future. The first attempt to use web search data as a forecasting tool of economic statistics was made by Ettredge and co-authors in 2005. This work gave a broad theoretical basis for further research. Around the same time, Cooper and co-authors (2005) describes the use of a search volume on the Internet for topics related to cancer. Since then, there have been several studies that have examined web search data in various fields.
For example, in the field of epidemiology, Polgreen and co-authors (2008) and Ginsberg and co-authors (2009) showed that the search volume for specially selected flu-related queries correlated with the total number of diseased. 
In economics, many authors demonstrate the predictive power of Google search query data in forecasting unemployment in the United States (D'amuri, Marcucci, 2010), Germany (Askitas, Zimmermann, 2009), Israel (Suhoy, 2009), Norway (Anvik, Gjelstad, 2010), and Russia (Борочкин, 2013). 
Since our analysis is focused on the mortgage housing loan market, we concentrate here on the empirical literature on relationship between internet search queries and numerous indicators of mortgage market. Recently, several authors Beracha and Wintoki (2013) and Saxa (2015) have assumed that inclusion internet search data related mortgage in predicting model of mortgage loan demand improve the quality of short-term forecast. 
Furthermore, Chauvet and co-authors (2016) developed a universal mortgage default risk index (MDRI) that also based on internet search queries and directly reflects households' concerns about the risk of default on mortgages. The authors argue that MDRI helps to identify consistent patterns that can be interpreted as «early warning signals» on the mortgage market, since MDRI has a positive effect on mortgage delinquency. In particular, the increase in the value of the MDRI is followed by an increase in the 60-day delinquencies and foreclosures, the most widespread measures of default in the housing industry. Thus, the results of the study demonstrate that the mortgage default risk index is a key predictor of mortgage delinquency and default.

Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. The goal of the research will be achieved by the practical approbation the methodology of building the mortgage default risk index that represented in the work (Chauvet et.al., 2016). Firstly, the content analysis is conducted in this study. It is based on the calculation of the frequency of using specific words or phrases (e.g. "mortgage help", "government assistance mortgage", 'mortgage assistance program", etc.) that will collect via statistics service of search queries Google Trends. In accordance with the previous researchers on similar problems, the content analysis renders the assistance in the construction of the MDRI (Chauvet et. al., 2016).
Secondly, once it is important to consider the dynamics of the index for the purposes of the research, it should be more appropriate to use time series data type in the study. The advantage of the time series data is that they are intended to analyze of non-stationary random processes (Канторович, 2003). Aggregated Russian data about mortgage delinquency and other control variables such as mortgage interest rate, unemployment rate and per capita income will be collected by using the open data source provided by the Rosstat and the Central Bank of Russia. It is particularly significant that all the above data will be presented on a monthly frequency and the time parameter - the period from 2016 to 2020 – will be analyzed. Further, I will verify that our time series satisfy the condition of stationary.
In the studies reviewed above, most scientists used the vector autoregression (VAR) model. The reason why this method is appropriate for the research is the ability to evaluate parameters using the ordinary least squares (OLS) method and to make a more accurate and easy-to-perform forecast. Thus, the VAR model will be evaluated in this study for mortgage default prediction.

Results anticipated
The following part of the proposal reports on the result which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. It is expected that the mortgage default risk index will positively influence the mortgage delinquency. This will allow to build a forecast of mortgage default from borrowers one or two month advanced. These predicted results are based on the same type of the evidence as in the literature reviewed. Moreover, it is also expected that the inclusion of the MDRI in the VAR model will improve the quality of the forecast. 
However, there are some limitations of the MDRI. Firstly, the mortgage default risk index only identifies the default risk that known to households. Thus, if a negative shock occurs in another sector of the economy and is then subsequently transmitted to the housing sector, the MDRI can act as a lagging indicator during the corresponding downturn. Secondly, the MDRI is by design an indicator of the risk of default and, therefore, may have limited use in determining the housing price boom.

Conclusion
The Internet is a place where significant socio-economic activity occurs, which makes it an important and largely unused source of information for scientific analysis. Sorting, searching, accessing, and discussing Internet search queries allows us to get important information about people's lives and activities. 
In this article, we use Internet search data to develop and test a broad, real-time indicator of default in mortgage markets. To do this, we first combine Google search terms such as “mortgage assistance” and "government assistance mortgage" to build a new MDRI. Then we analyze the predicted properties of the new index and its relationship with other housing and financial variables, including mortgage delinquency. If the implementation of the model examined in this study proves successful in practice, in the future it will be possible to introduce the model in the work of main banks of Russia.