Introduction
Background. Home management is becoming a popular issue widespread in many countries and in focus of many researches. For example, in China, a study of the impact of building management practices on the price of residential real estate was provoked by a series of devastating situations related to building construction (Yau and Ho, 2009). In Russia, in the area of ​​apartment building management, licensing has been carried out by management companies (Minstroy of Russia, 2015), which allows protecting the rights of citizens and motivates companies to work efficiently and conscientiously. Therefore, when buying a home attention is paid not only to the characteristics of the object (area, floor, availability of parking, etc.), but also to the developer and home management company. Together, these and other factors determine the price of residential real estate and understanding of the formation of prices makes it possible to adequately assess both the possibility of buying a home for households.

Problem Statement. The research problem can be formulated as follows: it is believed that the development of the real estate market is due to several endogenous and exogenous factors. Therefore, the purpose of the study is to identify and analyze a combination of factors affecting the price of residential real estate in South Korea.
In accordance with the purpose of the study, the following tasks:
- to study the pricing mechanism in the residential real estate market
- to conduct a regression analysis of the determinants of prices in the real estate market
- to determine what factors the most influential that affect the price of apartments based on the results obtained by econometric studies. 

Delimitations of the study. The research will also be to one country, but the research results can be applied to real estate markets of other countries. The last data collection was in 2017 and by the time the study is conducted, the data may be outdated. Moreover, the limitations will be the theoretical side of the study, such as the wrong choice of the functional form or the problem of missing variables, but such questions are typical of statistical studies.

Professional Significance. In the framework of the project is to analyses the concept of the pricing, that allow to describe the key factors in the market and build the model of the relationship of prices with indicators of apartments and countries. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to examine a combination of a fixed number of characteristics, its qualitative combination, which is included in the consumer’s usefulness in order to provide objective information to decision-makers on market operations.
The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for scholars, students of economics faculties, economists and lawyers who research the real estate market. The research of trends in the development of the real estate market amid economic, demographic, environmental and other factors are of primary economic and social importance and the knowledge gained is applicable in various areas of life.

Definitions of Key Terms. Pricing, residential real estate market, hedonistic method, regression model.

Literature Review
There are numerous studies of the residential real estate market. Research directions may include determining the relationship between price and a set of measures for the characteristics of the real estate objects themselves, or the price and macroeconomic indicators of cities and countries. 
One of the methods of studying the real estate market is the hedonistic approach, which is widespread in modern research. By clarifying the characteristics and including additional ones, such as accessibility, urban design, geographical scale and spatial effects, the article (Lieske et al., 2019) estimated changes in the value of residential real estate in Australia depending on the distance and accessibility of transport infrastructure. Using hedonic prices and the DiD method, Agarwal et al. (2019) revealed that Singapore's unique program to add space to an existing housing unit positively influenced prices by an average of 7%, and the green landscape in Beijing, Guangzhou and other cities positively affected real estate prices in China by 10% (Zhang and Dong, 2018), which increases the income of developers, investors and real estate agencies. It can also be noted that the areas that the hedonistic approach includes are quite diverse.
For example, researchers use the macroeconomic indicators of countries in the hedonic model as control variables using one-dimensional and multi-dimensional regression analysis. Despite the fast pace of globalization in the 20th century, it was not until the first decade of the 21st century that many scientists began to study the real estate market in terms of an open economy to take into account the impact of international trade on urban real estate (Aizenman and Jinjarak, 2009; Bardhan et al ., 2004; Reinhart and Rogoff, 2008). Many scholars have shown that property prices are associated with general economic cycles, and economic factors influence real estate trends, but this does not explain most changes in property prices in the short term (Quigley, 1999).
Wang et al. (2011) found a statistically significant positive correlation between the economic openness of cities and prices for urban real estate. The authors study the level of real estate prices (REP), which is calculated in accordance with the real estate price index and control such demand factors as disposable income per capita (INC), total urban population (POP), registered unemployment rate (UNEMPLOY). Supply factors such as the urban land rental index (LANDRENTS), urban population density (POPDENSITY), development cost (RECOST) and real estate stock (RESTOCK) are also included in the model, as shown in Figure 1: .
Numerous studies, such as Hon-Chung (2009), Ludwig and Slok (2004), Case et al. (2005), Bardhan et al. (2008), Goodhard and Hofmann (2007) found that GDP, unemployment, a country's current account, domestic demand and stock index are key macroeconomic factors affecting property prices. However, Hon-Chung (2009) notes that studies of the effects of the above factors on property prices should be considered separately for all countries and regions, given the cross-country differences in politics and cultural environments. Also, differences in property prices may also depend on the size of the city, as determined by Hong-Yu and Kuentai (2011). 
To determine the individual characteristics of the property, on which the price depends, use information on the area of ​​the object, the age of the building, the number of rooms and bathrooms, the number of floors, the distance to public transport. But as living conditions improve, other equally important factors appear that affect the price of housing. One of these factors is currently the method and control system in an apartment building. At the same time, there are not enough studies in the literature that would study the influence of building management and the number of managers in a house on the price of residential real estate. Using a hedonic pricing model (Hastings et al., 2006) shows that property prices increase when owners use professional management services. Empirical studies by Yau and Ho, (2009) were conducted to examine the relationship of specific house management methods in Hong Kong with the price of residential real estate. The specification of the studied model is semilogarithmic with quadratic terms for continuous variables and is defined as: .
To determine the management method, the authors compared 189 apartment buildings in Yau Tsim Mong and the Eastern regions according to a specially developed assessment system, which included various quality indicators, namely: architectural design, the provision of construction services, the external environment, operation and maintenance, and also management mechanisms. Of the ten management practices studied, six were found to have a significant impact on residential property prices.
Gornostaeva, Alyokhina, Lazareva (2017) studied the role of service quality in the development of the American real estate industry. The key idea of ​​the study is that the quality of services of real estate companies is a vector of development of real estate in the modern world. As a result of the study, the authors concluded that only the best service guarantees the growth of competitiveness and profitability of real estate companies. A comparative analysis was also carried out (Gornostaeva et al., 2014) in Russia and Eastern Europe. The results of the study determined that business activity and investment attractiveness in the service sector in Eastern Europe are higher than in Russia. Service companies in Eastern Europe are more dependent on the global economy. Nevertheless, liquidity and solvency in Russian service companies are higher, as well as the share of enterprises in the services market due to the low level of competition. However, in Russia, the service sector is not a priority sector of the economy and the conditions for doing business are less favorable.
As for studies of the Russian real estate market, then (Magnus, Peresetsky, 2010; Krasilnikov, Shcherbakova, 2011) determined the total area of the apartment in different cities of Russia as the most important factor that determines the price. For Moscow real estate prices, such a factor as the distance to the metro is also important. And for St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg and Novosibirsk, the optimal values of the proportion of the kitchen area in the total area of the apartment were determined.
The development of the real estate market is due to several endogenous and exogenous factors. Some factors determine the local nature of the real estate market, while others contribute to its classification as one of the main sectors of the national economy. Rapid economic growth and the search for new investment opportunities have turned the market into a highly competitive environment.

Methods
The author uses a hedonistic approach, which involves assessing the pricing model for real estate using a set of qualitative and quantitative characteristics of housing. This approach is applicable for the creation and use of real estate baskets in the future, which allows you to follow the estimated cost of the selected type of housing over time, even if it has not been sold and has similar characteristics with analogues.
The hedonistic method is based on the Lancaster theory, which says that the usefulness of an object is made up of the utility characteristics of this object, that is, the consumer pays not for the goods, but for a set of characteristics. The advantage of the method is its ease of use in working with a large data array. The most frequently used specifications are linear and log-linear, where the price of the object (for the total area or square meter) is logarithmic, which allows reducing heteroskedasticity due to approximation by the normal distribution.
In this paper, the study of prices in the real estate market with the construction a hedonic model is a regression analysis the dependence natural logarithm of prices on the characteristics of the property and macroeconomic indicators of the country. Variables are two groups:
• the main ones that cannot be excluded from the analysis due to common sense and significant contribution to the model;
• additional, which can improve the quality of the constructed model.
, where
Price – price of apartment in square feet in South Korean won;
X1 – vector of basic characteristics;
X2 – vector of additional variables.

Results Anticipated 
The aim of the work was to test the hypothesis that the number of managers in the house positively affects the price of residential real estate. The work carried out a correlation analysis of macroeconomic indicators to determine control variables. Also, a correlation analysis was carried out for the characteristics of real estate to reduce the risk of multicollinearity, which increased the accuracy and significance of the results. It was found that an increase in the number of managers in the house leads to an increase in prices by 15%, excluding macroeconomic indicators. The results of a hedonistic analysis of prices showed that the price of apartments increases if the building is newly built. Moreover, many parking spaces on the ground and underground positively affect the price. However, an increase in the number of amenities in the home and shopping centers nearby reduces the price of residential real estate by 5% and 75%, respectively. The coefficient of determination describes 88.9% of the data variation, which proves a strong dependence of the price on the factors considered. 

Conclusion
The used set of characteristics that determines the price of residential real estate is unique and measures the quality for a particular property. Therefore, the results of this study allow various stakeholders to understand how house management affects the price of residential real estate.
In this study, a set of apartment characteristics is determining that statistically significantly affect the price of residential real estate. Also, a regression model builds with control variables - macroeconomic factors. The results are practically applicable for the residential real estate market in other countries.
In the future, it would be interesting to build a price forecasting model for the area in question; this may be useful for real estate agents in building an expert pricing system. While some scholars have studied the European population, the Asian population remains an interesting question. Additionally, an analysis of the seasonal component is possible - in which months the residential real estate market is most active and with what it may be connected. 