Introduction
The problem of involving people in donation practice is considered one of the most controversial issues in the US and European countries. Charity importance results from the fact that charity can effectively handle the social issues and even save lives. The problem mentioned was addressed in numerous articles by Russian and foreign scholars. The problem has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could cover all the steps of work aimed to stimulate donors to give more.
The aim of the study is to identify the ways of applying the insights from behavior science to the field of charity in order to nudge people donate more. Moreover, the work is aimed to analyze the set of factors affecting the involvement in charity and generosity in general.
The study findings will be limited by the period for gathering data and selection of the charity programs that will be engaged in experiment. The only available period of data collecting is from February to April. This limitation occurs because of a number of technical difficulties. As for the charity programs, only two of them will be analyzed. The reason for this is that other programs are not popular enough for gathering data about donations.
In the framework of the project the first tasks to deal with is to analyze the concept of interaction with donors in order to inspire them to give more. This will allow to analyze the key factors that drive donors and build the model of shaping their behavior that will increase the efficiency of foundation work. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for scholars, students of economics and psychological faculties, economists and people who are involved in charity and social work.

Literature review
Before the study of behavior economics methods it is significant to explore the roots of behavior science. The problem of differences between Homo economicus and humans is widely discussed in the work by Drogobytsky. His research is focused on determining the key features of the ordinary person described in the classical economic theory. Homo economicus, on who the classical economic theory is focused in fact, has such characteristics as outstanding memory, ordered preferences and unique computing abilities. The work demonstrates their irrelevance to the conditions of real life. It shows that a new image of a person who makes economic decisions is required. (Дрогобыцкий, 2016)
The issue of humans’ rationality is profoundly observed in the research by Avtonomov. The focus of his work is on the cases when people’s behavior deviates from rational behavior. The research proves that there are a lot of external and internal factors that force people to make decisions which are not economically reasonable. According to the work, rational behavior is just an abstraction that can be applied only to a certain extent.Therefore, the classical economic theory, which is based on rationality, is not capable to explain and predict things that take place in real life. (Автономов, 2017)
The book by Thaler and Sunstein is critical of the homo economicus view of human beings "that each of us thinks and chooses unfailingly well, and thus fits within the textbook picture of human beings offered by economists."(Sunstein, Thaler, 2008, p. 6)It cites many examples of research which raise "serious questions about the rationality of many judgments and decisions that people make". (Sunstein, Thaler, 2008, p. 7) The book states that, unlike members of Homo economicus, members of the species Homo sapiens make predictable mistakes because of their use of fallacies, heuristics, and because of the way they are influenced by their social interactions. The book initially presents “Nudge” theory which makes possible to manipulate people’s decisions the way that people do not feel manipulated. For example, “Nudge” theory shows the techniques of posing questions that can determine people’s answers and their final decisions. (Sunstein, Thaler, 2008)
The role of psychological effects, that behavior science covers, is described in the work by Thaler. It shows the way that the effects influence people’s behavior. The work observes such phenomena as false consensus effect, “curse of knowledge” and so on. They change the way people perceive information and determine irrational decisions.
Another book shows how to use insights from behavioral science in order to induce potential customers make purchases. Most organizations spend much of their effort on the start of the value creation process: namely, developing new products or services, creating a strategy and analyzing the market. They pay a lot less attention to the end: the crucial step where consumers come to their website and make a choice. The mistake is that companies often give freedom to customers in the moment when they must lead them to the decision a company interested in.The book regularizes “Nudge” theory and divides nudges into two groups. The first one contains conscious nudges and the second one – unconscious nudges. Conscious nudge is about technics that people use themselves in order to get better results finally. As for unconscious nudge, it works discreetly for the recipient. Moreover, it is set exogenously as a rule. (Soman, 2015)
Next widely discussed cognitive bias is “Anchoring”. The “Anchoring” effect came from psychophysics. In the case of “Anchoring” an individual depends too heavily on an initial piece of information offered (considered to be the "anchor") when making decisions and subsequent judgments. Once the value of this anchor is set, all future negotiations, arguments, estimates, etc. are discussed in relation to the anchor. This bias occurs when interpreting future information using this anchor.For example, the initial price offered for a product, set at the start of negotiations, sets an arbitrary focal point for all following discussions. Prices discussed in negotiations that are lower than the anchor may seem reasonable, perhaps even cheap to the buyer, even if said prices are still relatively higher than the actual market value of the product. A person begins with a first approximation (“anchor”) and then makes incremental adjustments based on additional information. These adjustments are usually insufficient, giving the initial anchor a great deal of influence over future assessments. (Tversky, Kahneman, 1974)
Before applying insights from behavioral science in order to make people donate more it is necessary to understand the factors that determine people’s propensity to donate.
The work byCore and Donaldson explain how and why donors divide donations between people across distance and across time. US donors tend to give less to charities that benefit the poor and more to charities that benefit the non-poor (such as universities, museums and arts organizations). Many of these wealthier charities have created endowments that benefit not only present persons, but also future persons.According to the research people prefer to help the people who are nearer to them whether by reason of physical distance, psychic-identity, or temporal distance. So, donors express preferences for benefits arriving sooner rather than later. (Core, Donaldson, 2010)
The factor, that vitally influences participation and the level of donations, is income. Most works cite that income gives a positive effect on involvement in charity.Wealthier people usually are more generous than others. One consequence is that a relatively small proportion of donors account for a large proportion of total giving. Though it is necessary to consider the popular reputation of the wealthy for generosity is actually due to the exceptional generosity of a minority rather than widespread generosity among the wealthy. (Auten, Rudney, 1990)
One more significant factor is education. Researches prove that people who have a university degree are more generous than people who finished school only.However, there is perception in accordance with that education depend on well-being. That is one more argument for a correlation between income and generosity in charity.(Banks, Tanner, 1999)
Many works mention age as an important factor. They presume that with age people likely to give more. But at a certain age, people stop increasing the sum of donations. The average age variates in researches: it takes values from 60 to 75. (Мерсиянова, 2010)The probable reason of the habit change is that people usually have their retirement at that period.However, this factor is also connected with welfare as the older people get the higher their income climbs.(Andreoni, 2001)
Discussing the role of sex, researches are unable to reach a consensus about it. Some works tell about male’s generosity exceeding female’s one. (Weyant,1984; Andreony, Brown, Rischall, 2003) Some show the opposite findings. (Mesch, Rooney, Chin, Steinberg, 2002) And some state that sex does not determine the sums people give at all.

Methodology
The data on donations were obtained in the course of the field research. Since the work uses such raw data, the primary method is a field experiment. This type of experiment is done in the everyday environment of the participants. In this case the experimenter still manipulates independent variables, but in a real-life setting, so he cannot really control extraneous variables. Modern use of such experiments has roots in the 1700s, is when James Lind utilized a controlled field experiment to identify a treatment for scurvy. In this work the method helps to illuminate the tendency of people’s donating behavior in conditions of real life when examined variables are changing. After collecting data, the method of cross-sectional analysis is used. The idea behind this statistical method is to compare the differences among the subjects selected for observing. In economics, cross-sectional studies typically involve the use of cross-sectional regression, in order to sort out the existence and magnitude of causal effects of one or more independent variables upon a dependent variable of interest at a given point in time. The method enables this research to determine connections between various factors and interpret them later. Cross-sectional studies give the flexibility to the researcher to look at multiple variables together as a constant, with only one variable being the focus of the cross-sectional study.However, this method has a weakness also: it is not entirely full proof though because the presence of risk factors and outcomes are simultaneous and their studies are simultaneous too.Cross-sectional analysis can elucidate the problem of small gifts widespread among people and overcoming possibilities. This method is aimed to define the possibility of the mode sum increase under behavior economics techniques implementation. 

Results
It is expected that the research will show following resultsfinally. Firstly, the indicator of average donated sumset on the website will positively influence the mode of donations and enhance the flow of contributions.That is due to taking the meanas an “anchor” which can help to define the sumfor giving. There is a hypothesis in line with that people, who have doubts when estimating their donation, will spend the sum that will exceed or be near the meanvalue they see on the website. Secondly, increasingthe amounts of money,set for prompt payments, will be followed by the growth of the total funds raised. The anticipated results fully correspond to behavior science theory.

Conclusion
To sum up, this study contributes to the understanding of the approaches that allow increasing the amount of money charities can collect. In particular, this paper examines the hypotheses about the impact of “nudges” on donors’ behavior in order to make charity work much more efficient. The efficiency of the work actually determines the quality of life disable children live. If the implementation of the model examined in this study proves successful in practice, in the future it will be possible to complicate the model by including additional factors. In the case of successful testing, the model will be introduced in the work of other charitable trusts.


