The electoral formula that includes a specific list of institutional characteristics of the system (set by our government) influences on the electoral process not only on the mechanical level, but also on the psychological. Based on these parameters, the political parties and actors choose their strategy for election campaigns and methods of influence on the electorate [Norris, Electoral Engineering, 2003]. However, socio-economic characteristics of regions and features of electoral formula both theoretically and practically affect the outcome of elections. Political actors have to act not only within the institutional framework of the electoral formula, but also rely on the specifics of their region. Substantially electoral system in Russia over the past two decades has undergone series of fundamental changes that, in turn, affects directly the behavior of political actors [Lyubarev, 2014].In this case there is the following research question about effects of institutional settings and region's socio-economic factors to the results of elections. «Electoral formula» regarding as a set of institutional characteristics can be consist of different variables: «Election threshold», «Type of electoral system», «The possibility of early voting»,  «The presence of the ballots contained in portable ballot boxes».

The main purpose of this work is to determine the logic of the electoral process in city districts: regarding fundamental institutional factors and socio-economic contexts. On the one hand, there is the electoral formula that generates the electoral field in the whole country. On the other hand, there are specific factors within each city district. And their joint effect creates a unique formula of elections in each city district. 
     
Thus, specific tasks should be emphasized within the research:
1. To define the most common concepts of the electoral formula and socio-economic effects on elections.  
2. To define according to regarded concepts the list of indicators which influence will be tested.
3. To determine possible interconnections in outcome models and their interpretations. 
     
Investigations devoted to city districts as new-created territorial entities form a scientific field that is not studied profoundly. 
     
The research is focused on electoral processes (particularly, taking one electoral period) in each city district in Russia 2011-2016.
           
In order to determine all possible indicators (both socio-economic and institutional parameters) for the research it is necessary to link them with theoretical concepts that exist. 
     
As for the concept of the electoral formula, the basis is the approach of rational choice institutionalism developed by P. Norris, whose basic idea is the assumption that the formal rules of electoral formula have a strong influence on electoral behavior [Norris, Electoral Engineering, 2003]. From the point of view of rational choice institutionalism, institutional factors create incentives for political parties, citizens that indirectly have an effect on their strategies during electoral campaign. Also, the rational choice institutionalism suggests that strategies that are produced by actors within the established rules, recent formal changes always entail changes in electoral behavior. P. Norris also develops «motivation theory», which says that voters’ behavior is always determined by their rational choices. 
     
It is important for the research to regard the study of B. Burden, D. Canon, K. Meyer, D. Moynihan («The electoral law, mobilization and turnout: The unintended consequences of the electoral reform») [Burden, 2013], it gives a new perspective on the connection of phenomena such as early voting, and voter turnout.
      
Grofman B. and P. Selby in «The turnout and the effective number of parties» [Grofman, 2011] give a detailed analysis of electoral system types, the percentage threshold for parties, reveal the causes of effects of the electoral formula linked with turnout also formulate new hypotheses for further analysis.
     
As for the influence of socio-economic factors, firstly,  the approach developed by A. S. Achremenko who points such feature of modern Russia as the continuing transformation. In this case, the role of socio-economic factors in forming patterns of electoral behavior is unsteady and dependent on certain territories. Despite such volatility using the socio-economic approach to identify the genesis of electoral behavior has a high scientific and applied value. Selecting the socio-economic indicators it is important to pay attention to, firstly, the possibility of their influence on electoral behavior (based on the results of already conducted series of researches as well as simple logical reasons) and, secondly, the presence of statistical material. A. S. Achremenko defined such groups of variables as education, social differentiation, living standarts, demographic, the consumer market and innovative development (Achremenko, 2007, p. 92). Thus, this approach will be used in order to select indicators for the research. 
     
In addition, for the further analysis of elections in city district, according to R. F. Turovsky, a context of regions plays a specific role and sometimes cannot be represented by quantitative parameters. So, in «Regional identity in modern Russia» he defines the group of factors that are appropriate for the statistical analysis: the national factor, socio-economic factors and geography-oriented ones (Turovsky, 2006).
     
Also we deal with such sources as legislation and documents referring to the process of elections in Russia. Thus, the use of federal laws regarding early voting rules [Federal Law on the Election of Deputies ... Article 65], the presence of portable ballot boxes [Federal Law on the Election of Deputies ... Article 83] is in the nature of the case. 
     
As it was mentioned above, the research is supposed to apply to mathematical methods, that’s why, data on elections and regions’ social statistics will be taken from official websites of the CEC (cikrf.ru) and Federal State Statistic Service (gks.ru). 

According to the specifics of the research conducted empirically, the methods of mathematical statistics will be used. The main analysis tool is a logistic regression. The practice-oriented part of the work is implemented in order to test hypotheses about the influence of the electoral formula and socio-economic characteristics of regions on the citizen participation in elections. The statistical analysis will be conducted in the package SPSS («the Statistical Package for Social Sciences») and the program «STATA». 
     
Studied indicators will be covered by the data from the official website of the CEC (cikrf.ru) and Federal State Statistic Service (gks.ru). 
     
In details, the statistical analysis implies the use not only the regression model but also such tools as correlation coefficients (Spearman, Pearson), scatter plots. 
     
Firstly, correlation coefficients are about measuring of relations between two variables. They always lie in the interval [-1; 1]. If there is no any dependence between parameters, correlation coefficients corresponds to value 0. (Tyurin and Makarov, 2002). So, any coefficient is an objective measure, indicating the presence or absence of a relationship between two variables and measuring the intensity of this connection. The correlation coefficient was proposed as a tool with which it is possible to test the hypothesis of dependence and measure the strength of it. Coefficient of correlation is not a perfect tool; it is only suitable for the measurement of linear dependence. The practical use of correlation coefficients (Spearman, Pearson) appears during the first selection of predictors for the model.
     
Secondly, the key advantage of scatter plots is visualization.  They are used to demonstrate the presence or absence of correlation between the two variables. Determining the causes of uncontrolled points in the statistical process, confirming the steady relationships are the cases when scatter plots are needed most. 
     	
Finally, logistic regression can be regarded as a final step of our statistical analysis. «Logistic regression analysis is a popular and widely used analysis that is similar to linear regression analysis except that the outcome is dichotomous (e.g., success/failure or yes/no or died/lived) » (Boston University School of Public Health, 2013). The key function of regression models is to predict the probability of certain events by reviewing values of adjusted variables. The main advantage of this tool is its ability to take into account a large number of influencing factors during the analysis. Moreover, creating a normal linear regression model cannot be implemented. Thus, logistic regression models are the most appropriate tool to construct the formula that will represent which of factors matter. 
      
We are confident that as a result of our research the overall goal that we determined will be reached. Logistic regression models will be interpreted according to existing theoretical concepts. Before analytical conclusions each adjusted indicator has to be tested in order to find its relation with the results of elections. The main expectation is creating steady models that can show which indicators influence the most on elections’ results. 

The database that includes information about past election campaigns in Russia city districts from 2011 to 2016. During the analysis statistical data processing programs, SPSS and STATA can be regarded as the main tools of the research. 
     
Results obtained are logistic regression models that test hypotheses about the effect of the electoral formula and socio-economic factors on the participation of citizens in different city districts. According to P. Norris’s theory, the structural elements of the electoral system always have an indirect impact on the electoral behavior of the voters that means on elections results in general. Depending on the trends, the correlation can be either positive or negative. Using leading electoral theories the interpretation of the created mathematical models will be given in the study. A hypothesis for further investigation is the fact that the electoral formula will always be changing and its impact on electoral results cannot be overestimated. As for socio-economic parameters, they supposed to complete the electoral environment in any region. 