People are naturally tend to have a desire for power. The most common way to get official power are elections.  Democratic elections plays a vital role in in life of the state. But sometimes people involved in this process try to use illegal methods to manipulate the elections, Gerrymandering one of them. It is usually defined as the process of setting electoral districts to establish a political advantage for a particular party. 
  
Nowadays it is not obvious is the state democratic or autocratic, because both try to use democratic institutes, for example elections. A. Schedler created a concept of «Foggy Zone» or «Grey zone», where are states which try to make a democracy. In such states there are democratic institutes, but the results of the activity of this institutes are not democratic. In other words, they just make an illusion of using democratic rules. Russia is always belonged to the Grey Zone, that is why researches in this field are very actual.  A lot of people support the idea that last elections were manipulated by the governmental party, which tries to minimize the influence of the opposition candidates. Current research on gerrymandering are more focused on cases of the USA,  but this  paper pays more attention on gerrymandering in Russia. 

The main purpose of this work is to define are there any indications of gerrymandering in the new scheme of electoral constituencies of Moscow city on elections to the State Duma 2016. The research questions of this exploratory research  are:
  1. To outline main approaches in defining gerrymandering and describe basic techniques.
  2. To analyze new scheme of setting electoral districts in Russian on the Parliament elections in 2016;
  3. To make the scheme of  Moscow electoral districts, using the method of mapping.
  4. To analyse the index of  gerrymandering.
  
In the modern world despite the  general trends of globalization and democratisation, more and more states are belonged to the “Grey zone”. Using democratic institutes, such as elections, government just make an illusion of democracy, in order to consolidate their power and help their incumbents to get access to public offices. Researches in the field of gerrymandering help better understand the phenomenon of manipulation with constituencies. Moreover, one of the main principles of democratic elections - is the equation 1 voter = 1 vote, and in the case of gerrymandering, the votes of many people become simply worthless .
  
It is difficult to confirm gerrymandering, because new scheme does not consist the details of new districts. It is difficult to say where particular constitutions begins and where it ends. In order to solve this limitation, we need to find more precise information about concrete address of every electoral district. Such kind of information can be found in the documents or on the web site of Moscow government.  Also it is difficult to analyze whole country, that is why one area was chosen - districts of the city of federal value Moscow.
   
Definition of key terms.
  1. Gerrymandering - process of redrawing election district boundaries to give an electoral advantage to a particular candidate or party.  (Mackenzie)
  2. Manipulation - an action aimed at the distortion of the electoral process to ensure victory. (Avchenko, 2002)
  3. Index of gerrymandering - a score and rank of districts in a consistent manner .

Gerrymandering is widely studied in the USA and Europe. The literature on gerrymandering shows a variety of approaches. Many researchers create their own classifications of kinds, types and forms of gerrymandering based on certain criteria and characteristics. This paper relies on the articles of five researchers, who actively study Gerrymandering and present their own approach.
  
In order to determine the theoretical value of gerrymandering it is necessary to link it with existing theoretical concepts. American political scientist, Andreas Schedler, is the the founder of “Grey zone” concept. In his article “The menu of manipulation” he outlines the problem of states, which are in “The foggy zone”. Nowadays a lot of nondemocratic states use democratic institutes, for example elections, trying to make an illusion of effective and democratic state, with fair elections. Russia traditionally is belonged to the Foggy Zone. (Schedler, 2002).
  
Gerrymandering is a wide phenomenon, which can be based on different purposes. One of the approaches is described by John Mackenzie, Associate Professor of department of Applied Economics & Statistics in University of Delaware. In his article «Gerrymandering and Legislator Efficiency» Mackenzie claimed that the main purposes of gerrymandering are to maximize the number of legislative seats that can be won by the political party in charge of redrawing the district boundaries, and to create “safe” seats for the party’s incumbent legislators. (Mackenzie). This can be done by using 4 main techniques of Gerrymandering: cracking (to spread opposition voters among numerous safe districts where they are in the minority), packing (to put as many opposition voters as possible into a minimum number of conceded districts, ), hijacking (“hijack” a district from an incumbent by redrawing the boundary to exclude his house ) and kidnapping (put incumbent into a district where he will lose the next election).  His main criterion of gerrymandering in his cases is based on confrontation between opposition and governmental party, which is very similar to Russian elections.
  
The authors of second approach are Antony Yoshinaka, an american political scientist, and Chad Murphy, political scientist and professor of University of California. In their work called «Partisan gerrymandering and population instability: Completing the redistricting puzzle» they also describe 4 main techniques of Gerrymandering and analyze the object of manipulation. These article helps to analyze Russian case, because there are a lot of common characteristics.
  
Kent Sheidigger, an american political scientist offers new approach and creates absolutely new classification of forms of Gerrymandering in his article «Defining the Gerrymander». He describe Partisan Gerrymandering, Racial Gerrymandering and Incumbent Protection Gerrymandering. 
  
One more approach which year paper release on was offered by Rohn Johnson, the author of article «Manipulating maps and winning elections: measuring the impact of malapportionment and gerrymandering». He also compare different techniques of Gerrymandering, but his classification consist of only 2 of them. His classification is important and valuable because of his criterion, which is also based on confrontation between opposition and governmental party.
  
The last approach in defining Gerrymandering was made by political scientist Justine Levitt. He also describe only 2 main techniques of gerrymandering, but his criterion is based on racial and ethnic conflicts. It seems strange to describe such criterion, but unfortunately it is steel used nowadays.

This paper will proceed through stages using the method of case studies, the comparison method, the method of content analysis of maps and documents and method of mapping.
  
There are 3 specialist approaches in identifying Gerrymandering, which the paper has observed in Section I. Every approach includes particular classification, that is why the comparison method is used. It helps to compare representative classification of types and techniques of Gerrymandering and identify the basic criteria of each classification. These criteria will help to analyze the angle of every scientist and his attitude to this kind of manipulation.
  
Relying on these approaches and classifications the concrete case of election will be observed to find out the characteristic of Gerrymandering. As a cases the elections in September 2016 to the State Parliament were selected. Method of case studies is widely used in political science, because it helps to make detailed examination of a subject of study.
  
The work also uses the method of content analysis of documents, including analysis of the framework related to the procedure and rules of carrying out national elections, for example the Law presented new scheme of one-mandatory districts. Analysis of this law makes real to understand how many voters there are in every districts. Also is shows what districts were divided.
  
Method of content analysis is also used to examine the map of district boundaries. Firstly, it is important to identify districts with ‘strange’ form or layout, separated or island districts and other suspected features. Secondly, applying the method of case studies to the materials of the state and regional press, the political reasons for these oddities will be observed. It will help to find more arguments to confirm the use of Gerrymandering. 
  
Method of mapping was used by Qgis program, which is a cross-platform free and open-source desktop geographic information system (GIS) application that provides data viewing, editing, and analysis. It helps not only created maps, but also analyze different variables, for example, index of gerrymandering.

In the second part of the research the analysis of the new scheme of single-member districts for the whole country Russia was made. It was based on the common criterions of a democratic cut created by John Mackenzie,  such as an equal number voters and compactness were analyzed districts in the country.
  
Then the theoretical analysis of the scheme of electoral districts in Moscow was made. The number of voters in all districts are roughly equal, and does not deviate from the Single representation quota by more than 10%. Comparing the scheme of electoral districts in Moscow in 2016 with the scheme in 2003, we came to the conclusion that  districts has changed slightly, but effectively in governmental sense. Only three new district were created, 11 were close to the borders of 2003. However, some manipulation of boundaries exists. Opposition areas were distributed among different districts to minimize the impact of opposition-minded voters. Conclusion on political views of voters has been made based on the results of elections of the Mayor of Moscow in 2013 and the Moscow city Duma elections in 2014. Such changes indicate that the technique of “Cracking” was used. 

As it was mentioned above, the main purpose of this work is to define are there any indications of gerrymandering in the new scheme of electoral constituencies of Moscow city on elections to the State Duma 2016. In the first chapter of the paper, main approaches in defining gerrymandering were outlined. After  the analysis of main techniques of gerrymandering, four of them were selected as basic: cracking, packing, hijacking, kidnapping. 
  
In the second chapter the general analysis of new scheme of setting electoral districts in Russian on the Parliament elections in 2016 was made. As a result, the gerrymandering was identified, because in many districts rural areas were connected with urban in unequal proportions, as there is a belief that rural residents tend to vote for the ruling party. This cut got the name “Petal”. 

At the present stage of research, the geographic model of the new scheme is creating in the program Qgis. After the geographical model will be done, and the index of gerrymandering will be calculated, it will be possible to conclude  the presence of gerrymandering.