Video games are comparatively new but increasingly popular cultural and social phenomenon. Since the invention in the 20th century’s 60s, they attracted attention of the young generation, and in 50 years they made their way from ‘garage’ hobby to multibillion multimedia industry. Such interest of the masses nave not been ignored by the scientific minds, and thus began the story of the cross-disciplinary field of study named ‘game studies’, which examines video games in all their complexity. This field was actively promoted and developed in the West – particularly in the USA – since the 80s of 20th century. At the same time, it is still fresh and untouched by the Russian scientists. However, in both cases, the place of video games as the source of information in political studies is not highlighted enough, and that, in our opinion, is a considerable blank spot of both game studies and political science.

The main purpose of this work is to determine the relevance of video games as the source of information in political studies. Seen in their relations to the general purpose, a number of specific tasks should be emphasized:
1. to determine theoretical relevance of video games as the source of information in political studies;
2. to determine practical relevance of video games as the source of information in political studies.

Game studies are a rapidly developing field of science in the Western hemisphere. Being viewed as a popular entertainment and a form of socialization, making an impact on other forms of entertainment, video games are hard to ignore. Still, the focus of the researchers stays on the process of gamification and the social impact of video games, leaving their political significance mostly untouched. In Russia the situation is more complicated – game studies are just starting to be conceived as a proper kind of science. Their value is understood mostly by the small circle of professional philosophers, which makes a considerable impact on the form of the researches conducted. At the same time, with all their differences, the Western and Russian situations have in common one thing worthy of attention: video games are not conventionally considered to be a ‘proper’ material for political studies. Thusly, our research provides the scientific community with the unique perspective on the value of video games as instruments of political analysis.

The main focus of the research is the value of video games as a source for political studies. Although it is necessary for us to appeal to the existing researches in game studies, we are not considering the value of video games as a form of artistic expression, a product of programming or a social phenomenon. We address such aspects of video games only in context of our research, without further exploring them.

In order to determine the theoretical relevance of video games it is necessary to link them with existing theoretical concepts, such as ludology. Ludology is the study of games, and, hence the name, video games may interest it as well. One of the main ludology’s researchers is Johan Huizinga with his study “Homo Ludens: A study of the play element in culture”. In this monography the researcher reflects on the place of games as a social practice in the human culture and concludes that games in general are the fundamental, constructing element of the civilization – basically, every aspect of our everyday life was firstly created as a game itself or as an element of a bigger game. The purpose of a game is to bring order to the chaotic environment, so it could be studied. Through games people studied nature at first, thusly creating a culture, and when the latter gained enough complexity to be as chaotic as nature itself, games were used to study it as well. Huizinga emphasizes that the nature of politics is similar to the nature of other parts of culture, so in this respect games may be used to study it. “Homo Ludens” also contains a list of properties that a game should have in order to be called ‘a game’, and, according to it, video games are Huizinga’s games, so all mentioned above can be applied to video games (Huizinga, 2011). 

The list includes following traits:
1)games have determined frame of time and space;
2)games are played in the order determined by voluntarily accepted rules;
3)games are not played with the motive of material use or necessity;
4)games’ attitude is of aloofness and rapture, it can be sacred or festive – depends on the game;
5)games are followed by feeling of tension and emotional acceleration;
6)games are finished with releasing the tension and feeling the joy.

This list allows us to determine if video games are the ‘games’ in terms of Huizinga’s vision and, consequently, if they can be used to understand the social reality of a human being.
     
In addition to ludological approach we use the hermeneutics paradigm in the interpretation of Hans-Georg Gadamer. He reveals his vision of the problem of semiotics in his magnum opus “Truth and Method”, in which he in detail analyzes the relations between the text, its author and objective reality. We address Gadamer because of the trait of video games that was not mentioned by Huizinga – their having an authorship. Huizinga’s games are authorless – they were created by the collective mind of the society (Huizinga, 2011). Video games are still games but we should in some way react on this particular trait of theirs because Huizinga in his time could not anticipate creation of video games. Also, we see this trait as important, because of its determining influence on the content of different video games.
     
In hermeneutics, we deal with texts and their semantics. By text we understand everything that was created by the hand of man – any product of culture. Thusly, here comes the understanding of video games as texts with their own semantical system. Those texts reflect both objective reality and the authors’ vision of this reality. Traditionally, authors are believed to be extremely subjective in their assessment ant interpretation of reality, which makes their creations far less useful in terms of understanding this reality. Gadamer disagrees on this part – in his understanding, the subjectivity of authors can be an extremely useful trait for the scientific study (Gadamer, 1988). It makes it rather difficult to grasp the hints of objectivity, but still, the author’s perspective allows him or her to make some of the aspects of reality more vivid. Moreover, subjective interpretation usually contents even deeper objectivity than even the author intended to include. Thusly, subjectivity of video games is not a flaw but an advantage that allows those who studies them to make reasonable and meaningful conclusions about reality (Gadamer, 1988).
     
Also, this approach allows us to view video games as means of political communication between a developer and a player, pointing our research in the direction of narrowing the subject and allowing us to choose a particular aspect of video games that can help us to prove our hypothesis at least partially.
     
As it was mentioned above, game studies do not fully consider video games as means to study the political sphere. Still, there are some researchers who, at the very least, mention such possibility. For example, Ian Bogost in his research “Persuasive Games: The Expressive Power of Videogames” mentions politics as one of the fields where the persuasive quality of videogames can be used (Bogost, 2007). Still, it is not the center of the study. Even so, this example is mostly an exception than a rule – game studies are still to new in the scientific field to perform such specific research. The Russian analog of game studies does not even have such examples. The same can be said about political science, which completely ignores video games.
     
These three paradigms – ludology, hermeneutics and game studies – are selected for a reason. The first perspective allows us to connect comparatively new and strange phenomenon of video games with traditional and respected theory – and also allows us to grasp the process of playing the video game as an independent and important part of the research. The second perspective demonstrates the subjective character of video games and their nature as a medium, a vessel for a message. Finally, the third perspective allows us to consider video games as a unique form of self-expression and an instrument for social changes. These perspectives combined create a complex image of the subject and give the necessary arguments for the possibility of using video games as a source in political studies.
Methods
     
According to the theoretical basis of our research, we determined our prime practical objective – to determine the fact of successful political communication between a developer and a player via a video game. Thus, we need an example of video game. We chose the “BioShock” series made by Ken Levine and “Irrational Games” studio for two main reasons. Firstly, the genre of the games is dystopia, which has a great connection to the political sphere. Secondly, “BioShock”, “BioShock 2” and “BioShock Infinite” are the most mentioned games in the articles and discussions that concern both politics and video games.
     
To determine the fact of the successful political communication we need to, firstly, determine the fact of conscious inclusion of a political message into a video game by the developer, and, secondly, determine the fact of receiving this message by the players’ community. In order to do so, we use content analysis – a method that allows us to scan different types of texts on the subject of necessary content. In our case we search for the mentioning of the political topics. As texts we use official announcements and interviews of the developers’ team and in particular lead designer Ken Levine for the analysis of the developers’ side and reviews made by video games journalists, messages in Internet communities and social media commentaries for the analysis of the players’ side of communication.
     
We also use the method of interview, talking with the workers of video game industry. We ask them questions about their occupation and exercised functions, their general view on the phenomenon of video games and the place of politics in modern video games. We do so in order to get an expert feedback on the topic of the research. This allows us to understand the extent of political influence on the process of video game developing and to get a fresh and deeply involved perspective on the topic.

We are confident that in the end of our research the overall goal that we determined will be accomplished. We will be able to prove that video games as a cultural and social phenomenon are relevant to political science and thusly may be used as the source of information in the political studies – particularly, they can be studied as a carrier of political messages. The chosen theoretical approaches indicate that there is sound basis for our hypothesis in the scientific world, and the video games that we chose for our analysis are based on classic political ideologies that were developed during 19th and 20th centuries. These two elements allow us to expect confirmation of our initial hypothesis.

We chose a limited way for our research – narrowed the connection between video games and politics to the communicative function. It helps us to save the resources, but significantly decreases the field of application of the results. Therefore, we also expect the crystallization of different ways to broaden our research and make it more universal.

The achieved result of the research is the creation of the set of arguments that allows us to confirm the relevance of video games as the source of information about politics. These arguments are proven both theoretically and practically and may be used in the following, more detailed studies of politics with the consideration of video games factor.