I have been studying US immigration policy for four years. During this time, the research focus has changed significantly from the Spanish-speaking immigration to the Russian-speaking, and now specifically to immigrants from Russia. My interest in immigration processes is caused by certain self-interest. I have been always interested in the United States as in object of studying of foreign culture, traditions, social and community foundations. Many times I myself became a hostage of the thoughts and wishes to migrate to the United States, becoming a potential Russian-speaking immigrant.

Problem Statement. The object of my study is the US immigration policy towards immigrants from Russia (its specific programs).
The subject of research is the motivation of Russian immigrants in the selection of the region / city in the United States as part of an immigration destination. This work is more theoretical than practical, my purpose is to give some theoretical explanation of the reason if Russian-speaking migration to United States. So, the problem of this research lies in the lack of narrow theories devoted to this phenomenon.

The significance of this research is that today studying the question of migration to the U.S. from Russia is not widely spread among scientists. At first glance, this topic may seem quite simple. The first answer on the research questions would be the assertion that: immigrants from the Russian Federation select the east coast the United States, and most of them immigrate through business programs or family reunification projects. However, this is only the most common view of the majority of inhabitants. The reality is much more complex and deeper: not all Russian immigrants choose the east coast (as it is already sufficiently flooded by immigrants), and do not all go to America only to to improve their economic situation, there are much more real reasons for immigration from Russia. The study of U.S. immigration destinations for Russian citizens, as well as direct work with immigrants themselves will help to understand and construct a theoretical explanation of the popularity of the U.S. among the Russians; territorial distribution of Russian immigrants in the US; distribution of immigrant network connections.

Delimitations of the study. The main questions of the study were mentioned earlier, but still, it can be difficult to answer all of them. The main constraints in the work may be: the time factor (the amount of time allocated for research) and complexity of data collection using the questionnaire: not all hundred questionnaires sent out can get response from the immigrants.

Economic theories
The literary basis of this study is the works of authors from different scientific fields: ethno-political science, sociology and economics. For example, building on the work Shveri R. "Rational Choice Theory: Universal Application or Economic Imperialism," you can get acquainted with the theory of rational choice, which is the main component of the theoretical part.  A rational choice, in this case, is the rationality of the decision on how/why/for what to become a US immigrant. The works of economists such as Anthony Downs' Economic theory of democracy »(An Economic Theory of Democracy, 1957) and James Buchanan (" Economic Policy Constitution ") help to understand the relationship of the economy with politics, how one affects the other; both economic and political processes complement each other.
Ethnic and political theories

Addressing ethnopolitology, you can explore the following books: a textbook for ethnopolitology by Tishkov, a textbook on ethnopolitology by Tavadova. These scientific papers let you know that this ethno-political science in general, its object and subject, what issues it deals with, and apply this knowledge to our study. From Achkasova tutorial you learn about political processes through the prism of ethnic factors.

The sources in this study are the official documents submitted at the following Internet sites: Department of Homeland Security, American Immigration Council, Centre for Immigration Studies. Different documents such as official government statistics on immigration to the United States, the laws and the reform of US immigration policy are used.

In this study qualitative methods are used. One of the methods is questionnaire method. To get information about a specific stage of life of a person, namely, the period of his life as an immigrant in the United States,
In addition to qualitative methods quantitative methods are used to confirm the accuracy of the results obtained using qualitative methods. Quantitative methods of analysis present correlation analysis and cross tabulations in SPSS.
The basic approach in this study will be the network approach in the field of immigration policy.
Aapproaches such as theory of rational choice and neo-institutionalism are also used. The theory of the new institutionalism is used in this study in the way that migrants, act rationally within the existing institutional constraints that have an impact on migration strategies of individuals.
In this study, I will be held on a questionnaire of 100 immigrants from the Russian Federation in the United States. It will be conducted in order to identify the motivation of immigrants. The results of the questionnaire will be interpreted by the author manually. Then the data will be processed in SPSS package to confirm or refute the information obtained using qualitative research methods.

By the end of the study, I plan to come to the following conclusions:
* The most sought-after area of US immigration policy toward immigrants from Russia is 
* The most popular areas for immigration Russians are big cities of sate importance on both coasts
* The theory of rational choice works in this case in the following way.......
* The results got by questionnaire are confirmed by the SPSS mathematical models.

Explanation of migration strategies of Russian-speaking immigrants in the United States may be expressed from the perspective of modeling the behavior of migrants.

The decision to take up permanent residence in another country is adopted by person under the influence of many factors. 
United States of America took huge flows of immigrants from all over the world for centuries. This position has historically formed and flowed from the fact that the U.S. - a country whose power and wealth were built by immigrants and their descendants.
Immigration has always made a significant contribution to the formation and increase of the country's population. The percentage of immigrants from the former Soviet Union with respect to the total flow of immigrants is small - for 1994 and 1995 (the time the largest Russian-speaking immigration to the U.S.), it was less than 5%. But in its qualitative meaning "Russians" are much more useful for the improvement of the social and economic structure of the country.

During the last 25 years in the US each year arrive almost 700 thousand immigrants from around the world. The number of immigrants living in the United States has increased too much. Therefore, various measures to tighten U.S. immigration policy have been taken, based on the data provided by the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1990 to 1999. Russian-speaking immigrants themselves regard the U.S. immigration policy as prudent, rigorous, fair. Despite the many rules, conditions and other formal factors that determine the chances for a prosperous migration, most of the potential of Russian-speaking immigrants still hesitant to move to the U.S. and become legal residents of this country.