Within a long historical time scale idea of conversion of votes was significant for the academy. A scholarly debate elaborates the theory and proposes new approaches.  Numerous attempts have been made to provide a solid grounding for theoretical basis the research into conversion of votes. In the current period the problem has been subjected to scrutiny and theoretical basis has been entirely reflected by articles and papers. The great contribution of influential scientist such as Dahl R., Taagepera R., Leipjhart L., open great opportunities for applying theory in practice. The great contribution and originality establish the relevance for this paper. In the recent years there are no articles about conversion of votes in region's parliaments in Russia.  This article put into the practice a huge theoretical basis with help a particular case of Russians regions.
       
The purpose of the paper to determine influence of the election factors on the conversion of votes in regional legislatures in Russia. Pivotal role of  election elements are not completely defined in regions. The first goal is model of conversion of votes in local parliaments. It is necessary to adapt tremendous theoretical basis for Russian's regions case. This task was resolved with using official statistics about elections in Russia. After that, the next  an essential aim include analyzing of election's law. It makes our understanding more clear and precise for model of conversion formulating. The solution of the last object guesses some variants of the regression equation. This one demonstrates influence social and economic factors on conversion of votes. 
        
Research in the problem area fully practical and hasn't attempts to give a broader theoretical basis. It is not difficult to fully realize potentially important implications into the practice. The topic support to become the discussion of issues more specific. Equal of regressions promote for principal decision in politics. It is possible to realized different way of manage for politicians with using results of the topic. 


«During the last 15 years, many important works have been published that reflect advances in the study of electoral systems. Farrell (2001) has a most thorough description of the multiplicity of electoral systems used, including their history. The handbook edited by Colomer (2004a) focuses on the origins of electoral systems and regularities in the choice among them, presenting numerous case studies. Gallagher and Mitchel (2006) describe electoral systems in 22 countries. Lijphart (1994) studies systematically the effect of institutional inputs on the number of parties and proportionality between seats and votes. Reynolds, Reilly, and Ellis (2005) offer practical advice on the strong and weak aspects of the various systems, and Diamond and Plattner (2006) evaluate the outcomes for consolidation of democracy.» (Taagepera,2007)«Katz (1997), Lijphart (1999), Powell (2000), and Reynolds (2002) analyze the implications of elections as a core part of democracy, each from a very different angle. Cox (1997), Blais (2000), and Norris (2004) connect institutions to political behavior, stressing the various forms of strategic coordination. Shugart and Carey (1992) and Jones (1995) study the impact of electoral systems in presidential regimes. Monroe (2007a,2007b) reconsiders application of social choice theory to electoral systems, introduces new measures of bias and responsiveness, and applies the results to institutional engineering in democracies.» (Taagepera,2007) «Specific electoral rules and/or geographic areas have been addressed in more detail by Grofman et al. (1999) on single non-transferable vote in East Asia, Bowler and Grofman (2000) on single transferable vote, Shugart and Wattenberg (2001) on mixed-member proportional systems, Grofman and Lijphart (2002) on proportional representation in Nordic countries, Elklit (1997) on emerging democracies, and Reynolds (1999) on Southern Africa. Darcy, Welch, and Clark (1994) and Henig and Henig (2001) have investigated the effect of electoral systems on women’s representation, and Rule and Zimmerman (1994) cover women and minorities.» (Taagepera,2007) «The ability to carry out analyses of worldwide scope has depended on the availability of electoral data. Among data collections, Mackie and Rose (1974, 1982, 1991, 1997) has been the major workhorse for long-established democracies. Nohlen, Krennerich, and Thibaut (1999), Nohlen, Gotz, and Hartmann (2001), and Nohlen (2005) have completed the gap for Africa, Asia-Paci?c and the Americas, respectively. A comparable collection for East Central Europe (Nohlen and Kasapovic 1996) seems to be available, as yet, only in German.» (Taagepera,2007) «King, Tomz, and Wittenberg (2000) have rightly criticized substantively ambiguous conclusions like ‘The coef?cient on education was statistically significant at the 0.05 level.’ A decision-maker would be hard put to make Party system specialists may be disappointed that this book says so little about the internal structure of parties and their interaction in a system. Our knowledge about parties continues to expand (among the most recent books, see Ware 1996; Mair 1997; Bowler, Farrell, and Katz 1999; Dalton and Wattenberg 2000; Gallagher, Laver, and Mair 2000; Gunther, Montero, and Linz 2002; Webb and Farrell 2002; Cross 2004; Adams, Merrill, and Grofman 2005; Katz and Crotty 2006). The structure and interaction of parties should affect their size distribution. By how much they do, however, does not seem to have reached the stage of operational prediction. Establishing and isolating the mean impact of electoral systems, as this book does, serves to narrow the range of what remains to be explained by other factors. If one expects political practitioners to make use of what political scientists publish, this gap between jargon and usable results should be a matter of concern.» (Taagepera,2007) «Arend Lijphart, Mathew S. Shugart, Lorenzo de Sio, Daniel Bochsler, Evald Mikkel, Russ Dalton, and Anthony McGann have commented on various drafts and/or helped in other ways. Undergraduate and graduate students at University of California, Irvine and at University of Tartu in Estonia have wittingly or unwittingly raised new questions about various aspects of content and style. Indeed, several of them (Mirjam Allik, John Ensch, and Allan Sikk) have become coauthors of detailed studies condensed in this volume. Mirjam Allik also ?nalized most of the graphs.» (Taagepera,2007)

This paper use some statistical methods. The conceptual framework is limited by opportunities of every method. 
Descriptive statistics used to summarize the data simply received through sampling. In turn, the statistical inferences needed for data obtained from a sample can be extended to the entire population.
      
Factor analysis - a multivariate method used to examine the relationship between the values of variables. It is assumed that the known variables depend on a smaller number of unknown variables and random errors.
      
Regression analysis - modeling method of measured data and the study of their properties. The data consist of pairs of values of the dependent variable (response variable) and the independent variable (the explanatory variable). The regression model is a function of the independent variable and parameters added random variable.

Recent findings in this topic has a set an established facts. Contemporary findings, a dataset allow to outcome relevant answers on research goals. Outcomes has far-reaching effects, because there is no investigation about this theme. Representative  sample and duly subordinated data provide relevant results. The final part of the proposal will include graphs and drawings, all other results will be reported in narrative text. The facts obtained be carefully tested. My arguments will be based on the data obtained in experiments. The methods help to demonstrate an initial understanding of objectives of vote conversion. To test more specific information in the knowledge about vote conversion it is possible focus on different aspects of electoral systems. The interim results highlight the existence of link between vote conversion and electoral threshold. The results will be reported accurately and objectively.  The text will be integrated with tables and figures. The project will have some theoretical implications.

Eventually  all results according  to goals of the topic. In conclusion possible to highlight that vote conversion need specialist attention to investigate. The baseline results of the present research make an important generalization. My findings have some practical implications. The most important conclusion provide a guideline for the studying other aspects of vote conversion.  For example what policy should realized authorities for vote conversion that they want to achieve. What kinds of changes necessary to make for this. To bring the project to a close I can state that the project will be an attempt to present some evidence advance our understanding of vote conversion. My efforts have succeeded beyond all my expectation.