The educational sphere covers a significant part of the state’s general policy. Moreover, contrary to a popular belief, the education policy is not connected only with the development of a variety legal acts regulating the formation and development of the activity of secondary schools in terms of material and technical equipment. In the last few years, there has been a growing interest to possible ways of improving the quality of secondary education. 
	
The methods of mathematical statistics are rarely used in the study of the educational policy, but in this research I will try to establish a link between non obvious indicators which effect general results.
	
Using the proven Heyneman-Loxley effect, based on empirical data and mathematical modeling I have all features to build a research model presented by Heyneman and Loxley for the case study of Russia’s regions and to identify links between the quality of education and the economic situation in the region. After that, it will be possible to give some recommendation for improving of educational quality.
	
The research is based on the works of Belyakov, Verbitskaya, Sokolov about secondary education and possible ways of solving some problems connected with this part of the government policy.
	
However, the research pays more attention to the fundamental foreign works of the impact of economic and social factors on secondary schools and, as a consequence, on students’ achievement. This issue is developed by foreign scientists such as Gerald leTandr, John Cleland, Sara Hall and others.
Problem Statement. The main research problem to be clarified is the fact that usually the quality of education is considered in isolation from the economic performance of the region, literally, it is believed that the consistency or inconsistency of the regional economy cannot affect the quality of education. Nevertheless, the Heyneman-Loxley effect can influence on academic achievements.
	
The purpose of the study is to build a research model presented by Heyneman and Loxley for the case of Russia’s regions. Several issues arise when dealing with the educational policy on Russia. Firstly, it is important to analyze the common agenda. Secondary, it is crucial to determine the educational policy for secondary schools in Russia. Thirdly, I need to select variables and form the database for the regression analysis and to test the hypothesis. Fourthly, I need to assemble complex interviews with representatives of the educational sphere. Covering all these points, I will present an original analysis of possible ways of improvement of school achievements.
Delimitations of the study. I am making the assumption, analyzing not the country as it was in the original research of Heyneman-Loxley, but urban districts and municipalities of Russia’s regions.
     
There are quite a number of theoretical literatures about the problems in the field of secondary education and possible ways of solving these problems, ways of improving the quality of education and economic opportunities, for example, fundraising in educational institutions. However, in this study, I pay more attention on the fundamental foreign works on the impact of economic and social factors in the secondary schools and, as a consequence, on student achievement (eg, scores on the unified state examination). 
     
Lauder, Brown and Halsey in his "Education, globalization and the future of economic knowledge» view education as one of the most competitive global processes, along with the economy and the trend toward globalization. Based on interviews with representatives of major companies and government posts, the authors attribute the educational and economic policies [Lauder, Brown, 2006].
     
Sheila Slaughter and Gary Rhoads in his study "Academic Capitalism and the New Economy" explore new educational channels and the transformation of knowledge into a product of capitalism. In this regard, there are a number of contradictions, such as the displacement of a number of government grants towards new "sources of income" [Slaughter, Rhoades, 2009].
     
Peter Lietz in the "quality of education and academic achievement in 21 European countries" also focuses on the effect Heyneman-Loxley that I analyzed: the quality of education and economic productivity of the region's impact on student achievement, proving this with the example of European countries. The authors have expanded the number of variables in the model, adding, for example, the economic status of the school [Lietz, 2010]. An analysis of the two models with new data in a number of European countries for 2003 does not show enough evidence to confirm the effect of Heyneman-Loxley.
     
Steven Heyneman and William Loxley authors of "The influence of the quality of education on academic performance among the 29 countries with high and low income" presented an original approach to the study of education. They compared education in countries with different income levels and concluded that depends on key factor that they found. It can be described as ‘children in low-income countries "learn" less than children in high-income countries for the same period of time’. Moreover, in low-income countries, less influence on academic achievement has social status, but much stronger influence of teachers and the quality of school education as a whole unit opposite situation may be found in high-income countries: there is a strong family influence on the academic achievement rather than the quality of teaching [Heyneman, Loxley, 1983].
     
One of the most famous scientists, which explores the educational system in various forms, is Gerald LeTendre. His work on education in different countries is an important contribution to the study of this area. In addition, he is one of the few who used the effect Heyneman-Loxley in their studies. In the present case, for our study, the most precious of his study "Socio-economic status, the quality of education and the development of the national economy: a cross-national analysis Heyneman-Loxley effect on the mathematical and scientific achievements of» [Baker, LeTendre, 2002], in which the LeTendre explains some aspects of education in an unusual way. For example, it proves the existence of the interface between social capital of students, the level of the national economy and the final situation in the field of education.
     
David Zumbach, also based on "Heyneman-Loxley Effect", conducts its own analysis of the 2000s to 14 African countries. Multilevel model analysis shows a partial reversal of the effect, but, nonetheless, only confirms the link between the country's economy and the quality of education [Zumbach, 2010].
     
As we can see, many foreign researchers tried to find the alternative ways to improve the educational system therefore they use nonstandard approaches. 
     
Sources for this study will be the legal acts about educational sphere, statistical data and complex interview. 

In this study will be applied mix-method research. First of all, I need to find out the some main details of educational policy, in particular, to find out whether there is a dependence of the quality of education on the economic viability of the region. In this area, I will use the qualitative methods of analysis. A classic text’s analysis of legal acts relating to educational activities and the theoretical aspects of the effect will be analyzed. Practice-oriented part of this study will be to test the hypothesis. In order to simulate the measured variables and analyze their properties, a method of regression analysis of the data will be applied. For work with statistical database the SPSS package will be used. As the dependent variables will act the data about the academic achievements of high school students and as the independent variables will act the data of economic condition of Russian regions. In this time, I work on the indicators, which can represent our chosen variables more correctly. Because of random sampling will be taken on the two regions from each federal district. As the dependent variable, reflecting the quality of secondary education, we will examine the GPA (grade point average) stands for Uniform State Exam on the Russian language; the data is taken from the regional statistical base. As independent variables to measure economic well-being of the municipality I will use the number of profitable organizations, the number of loss-making companies, the amount of social payments, and the monthly average wages of employees of organizations, profit or deficit of budget in the database of the Federal State Statistics Service. 
     
After the building the regression model and checking the relation between quality of education and economic condition of region, I can move on and apply the qualitative method. Further, will be collected the complex of interview with members of the educational sphere. They will be pupils, teachers, and parents from the different regions. Our target is to find out more details about educational process in high schools connected with chosen direction.
RESULTS ANTICIPATED
     
Previously I can say that the most likely outcome is that the effect proven by Heyneman and Loxley will be confirmed on a case of Russian regions. However, some number of researchers, who changed the methods of analysis, could not confirm the Heyneman-Loxley effect on the selected case. The results of my work are a series of regression models which explain the link of socio-economic indicators in the region with the quality of educational level in secondary schools. But the ultimate aim is to develop concrete recommendations for improving the quality of education in secondary schools on the basis of mathematical models and qualitative research. Based on the previous research, it can be argued that the larger the sample and accurate predictors, the more objective conclusion can be made. This study confirmed and verified all the selected predictors, so the hypothesis is confirmed.

In conclusion I would like to outline that the practical significance of the study is scientifically proved. After receiving the final results, analyzed regions can apply the recommendations for the construction of educational policies in the region. Moreover, received results can be used locally by secondary schools, in terms of parting emphasis on social education of students or internal parts of the educational process. Using leading educational theories in the study I will give the interpretation of expert interviews and the constructed mathematical models and, therefore, explain what social and economic factors was also influence the educational policy in Russia.