Greek literature has always been one of the most valuable sources for the study and recovery of the Greek polis’s life. Images of Greek life had significantly changed during the development of literature. 
        
For example, let’s address to the ancient comedy with Aristophanes as one of its representatives. His work belongs to the last quarter of the V century and the first decade of IV century BC, where he draws a broad and comprehensive view of Athens and its people, their social and personal life as well as the functioning of political institutions. Many of these aspects have been reduced to a minimum or completely disappeared in the New Comedy. Menander - the most famous representative of the New Comedy - created his work between 342 and 291 years BC. This period in the history of Ancient Greece is famous due to conquests of Alexander the Great and the subordination of the Greek policies. The New Comedy usually shows a quiet street in some residential area of Athens and a few heroes versed in the personal matters, but hardly mentions policy. However, comedies usually show some characteristics of the polis corresponding to a given period.
            
Thus, we can study the structure of the Greek Polis in the reflection of Greek literature which will give us a view of the polis of his contemporaries.
        
The polis problem, as the basic form of political and social organization of the ancient society, is one of the most important ones in the world of classics. This is reasoned by the statement that the understanding of Greek civilization is hardly possible without the understanding of the polis phenomenon.
            
This theme allows us to look at the antique polis from the inside in order to get into the features of their perception of the Greek authors. It also helps us to recreate the image of the ancient Greek polis as presented by the authors.
            
Therefore, the purpose of this research is to identify the features of reflection on the ancient polis of the IV century BC – II century AD.
A number of specific tasks should be emphasized:
1. To determine the features of perception of the ancient polis by ancient authors;
2. Reconstruct the overall image of the social group within the works of Greek authors;
3. To recreate the Greek polis as the ancient authors saw it.
        
Delimitations of the study. The boundaries of the study due to the fact that the ancient polis between the IV century BC – II century AD is characterized as the expansion of the Polis system. This period is the most interesting because it is hardly observed in the literary works of this reflection.

The main conclusions and ideas may close the existing gaps in the study of the ancient polis and create a view of the polis to its contemporaries. 

The research is formed by two main concepts: the ancient polis and Greece society. 

The first concept of the research is the ancient polis. The historiography offers many definitions of the polis. 

Many scholars have developed the concept of the polis and have contributed to finding specific features in this field.
            
The first studies originated in antiquity. The most important philosophers of the ancient period are Aristotle and Plato, who defined the polis as a civil community. (Aristotle, 1984)
            
The second approach is considered in the dictionary. It describes the polis as the city, the state and the republic. There are several stages of development. Myken describes the polis as a fortress. For Homer the polis is a town or a village. (Koshelenko G. A. 1983, p.10-11) 
            
The third approach to the polis is that it is a community and settlement. The settlement consists of houses and building, and the community consists of people. (Andreyev Y. V. 1983, p. 303-304) 
        
The research uses the definition of the ancient polis given by ancient authors and others researchers. The polis is a group of citizens or a city-state.
        
Another key term of my research is the social group. This term is usually regarded as an association of people with a common social sign based on their participation in certain activities related to the system of relations, which are governed by formal or informal social institutions.
Literature review
            
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. 
            
The main sources are the works of ancient authors such as the comedies of Menander, the writings of Lucian, Libania speech and the work of authors of late antique prose and poetry. All the authors are outstanding representatives of the ancient and late antique literature.  In these sources  identify the polis features and what features each author allocates. The sources used in the paper are those written monuments.
            
The most important monograph about for my research was the two volume book ancient Greece published in 1983 by Gluskina and Marinovic. The first volume says about the formation and development of the polis, evolution of the polis, social and political relations in Greece. The second volume analyzes the polis crisis and describes the polis relations in the IV century B. C. This research helps to understand the participation of ancient polis. (Frolov, E. D., 1988)
            
We use the monograph H. Habicht «Athens. The history of the city in the Hellenistic period». It sums up many historical works on this period there by helps us to look into the stories necessary for the research. (Habicht H., 1999)
            
We also used the work of  P. Levec «Hellenistic world» dedicated to the history, economy and culture of Hellenistic period. The author takes into account the numerous archaeological excavations and the achievement of historiography. (Leveque P. 1989)
        
The monograph and research on the ancient polis is also important for the research. The collection of articles under the editorial board of Y. V. Andreyev, V. G. Boruhovich, V. M. Strugatskogo e D. I. Frolov is one of those that are helpful for this paper. Article collection devoted to polis the basic unit of socio-political organization of the ancient society. It also highlights the problems of formation development of city-states and ancient civil communities. (Andreyev Y. V., 1983)
             
«The birth of the Greek Polis» book by E. D. Frolov is almost the only work dedicated to the birth of the Polis, which has become the defining society for Ancient Greece. This work allows us to understand the organizational levels of polis, from which the structural components it consists of. (Frolov, E. D.,1988)
            
The above work helps us to identify the characteristic features of the ancient city obtained through data we will be able to define and find signs of the ancient city in the performance of ancient authors in their works.
            
Researches on the development of the Greek polis-states have a strong tradition. Many questions concerning the polis, its development and crisis, were considered by scientists. This study is a description of the polis from the different perspective; the work shows how a resident of the polis refers to the polis as it perceives.
Methods
            
This part of proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out the research.
            
The study is based on the principle of historicism, which allows us to consider the phenomenon of its development, to understand, to interpret correctly and to identify those features that are not confined to the past but also the present and the future.
            
The main research method is historical-comparative, which allows to identify common features of the ancient city and use them to find in Greek literature. The comparative-historical method is used to explain the values of certain representations and characteristics of the polis. It admits that the identification of similarities and differences in the view of ancient authors.
            
Another significant method for the research is hermeneutical. This method helps to interpret literary works and to make sure that the interpretations are objective.
            
Another scientific method for the study has two objectives: firstly, critical analysis of sources to identify accurate information and secondly, in the reconstruction of the historical reality on the basis of the obtained data.
                       
This part of the proposal is organized in terms of research questions and reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned.

The research is expected to produce some valuable results. The plan is to reconstruct the ancient polis in Greek literature.

Preliminary analysis has revealed a number of features of the ancient city: 
* the emergence of a large property;
* the concentration of wealth in small groups;
* the emergence of mercenary troops;
* Development of the monetary system;
* Increase in slave labor;
* The decline of trade relations;
* Impoverishment of wide layers of the free population.

The hypothesis about the transformation of the ancient city from different authors. As this period is characterized by the decline of the polis system, the authors of the different broadcast this information. So, for example Menander in his comedies barely mentions the ancient Polis, but on the contrary very active Libani describes the situation in his city. (Menander, 1982)
Conclusion

The antique polis has a value reorientation, his basic idea and values, such as a group of citizens and all for the benefit of the polis go by the wayside, now, in the era of Hellenism at the forefront of man and his individual peculiarities. Most important to man is his freedom the feeling that your private world is not disturbed.

Many of the questions that agitated the population of Greece was placed under the jurisdiction of governments, and ceased to be a nation-wide business. First of all these things keenly interested in every free citizen of the Polis; he had the right, duty and ability to Express their opinions and influence the decision of the cases. In the Hellenistic States the individual citizen is left to deal only with their private Affairs. Public and political interests increasingly fade away, and the man closed the narrow circle of individual life.

This period is questioned, criticized and rejected the old division of people into free and slave Freedom is interpreted here not as a socio-political but as a spiritual phenomenon, and on this basis proclaims the great principle of universal freedom and equality of people according to the laws of nature and of natural law.