The democracy and formation of steady democratic institutes depends on many factors. However, one of the most important factors of development is mass media. The authorities constantly interact with the mass media and it can affect the freedom of expression of journalists. Perm Krai one of most "liberal" in Russia. Traditionally, the region is called "the capital of civil society in Perm Krai". 
However, with the arrival of Viktor Basargin, "democratic" political regime in the Perm region is becoming more moderate. 
The professional communities of journalists in the Perm region are influenced by the regional authorities and business representatives that determine editorial policy. Despite of this, the arrival of the position of the head of the Independent Union of Journalists of the regional authorities of journalist Igor Lobanov considered a potential sign of the formation of a relatively independent professional community. And that means that mass media will be actively developed. One of the most important events is Gaidar Award. Igor Lobanov also showed the introduction of new awards.

The purpose of the research is to identify strategies of interaction with journalists by public authorities.
To complete this purpose it is necessary to do the following tasks:
1. Conceptualize the basic approaches to social networks.
2. To characterize the professional community of political journalists on the example of Perm region.
3. To identify how authorities and journalists cooperate through social networks. 

In this research, the main range of issues will be how the state has an impact on the functioning of the media in Russia, and how social networks affect this. It is important that the limits to the professional activity of journalists, how to develop a professional community of journalists. We need to know how often the state orders carried out in the mass media. It is also important to talk about the awards as a political institution, which regulates the relationship between the media and the state. At the moment there are Gaidar Award and the Silver Bear in Perm krai. The study can be found other ways of interaction between the media and the state. 
Definitions of key terms. Social capital - "characteristics of social organizations, including networks, norms and social trust that facilitate coordination and cooperation for the benefit of the public purpose." Social capital - is a public good. (Putnam, 1993, p. 256)
Social networks - "one of the elements of social capital, but define them differently. According to RD Putnam, social networks - is interpersonal communication, which the author still calls civic engagement (civic engagement) ». (Putnam, 1996, p. 273)
Social norm - "these are the rules of conduct governing the relationship between people and their communities." Social norm is part of the social capital. (Putnam, 1996, p. 273)

The issues of social networks have been studied by a great number of scholars.

The main scientific work by Robert Putnam devised to democracy: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy. In the Italian case Putnam and his colleagues studied a network of horizontal relationships, and brought a direct correlation between the number of civil society organizations (from the Choral Society to football clubs) and the quality of regional development. For example, in northern Italy the level of civic engagement is much higher than in the south. Putnam examines the conditions that enable the creation of strong, responsible, and effective institutions of representative government. Robert Putnam has shown that in those regions of Italy, where a hundred years ago  Italians were the most actively involved in new forms of social solidarity and social action, and their descendants are the most "civic" in political and social life. And in these same regions public life had clearly civilian nature of a thousand years ago, when the commune thrived, various societies, guilds etc.

The evolution of society does not occur exclusively in terms of the effectiveness of institutions. Thus, the evolution of Italy developed on public omnibus. Civic culture it is the basis of the professional community. This leads to democracy i.e. social inclusion of all citizens. 

The main conclusions of this work are:
- The effectiveness of institutions depends on the history and social capital.
-  Development institutions are able to change the political situation in the state.
The question is how to measure the social ties between the organizations? Granovetter in his main work «strength of weak tie» said, that " It specifies that the power connections - a "combination (probably linear) duration, emotional intensity (emotional intensity), proximity or mutual trust (confiding), and the reciprocal services which characterize this relationship". (Granovetter, 2009, p.34) There are bridges between connections. A standard source of weak links is a formal organization and working environment.

The stronger the relationship between individuals, they will like each other more, and between them the friendly relationship will strengthen. Strong communication creates dense network and weak ties - less dense network. Weak bonds play a role in community organizations. Creating an organization in the initial stages is very challenging, especially when the person is not associated with anyone outside of their clique. You can inform the creation of the organization in the media, but people prefer to trust the information that passed through their personal contacts. This implies a problem mentioned by Putnam - a problem of trust. Granovetter argues that trust depends on whether there is a mediator in close connection with the person to convince him to trust the leader. «The credibility of leaders depends entirely on the ability to predict their behavior and influence it. Leaders, on the other hand, have little incentive to be responsive to those whom are not related, directly or indirectly, or at least look for their trust. Thus, the fragmentation of the network, which significantly reduces the number of paths from any potential leader for his followers, will prevent the formation of trust to such leaders». (Granovetter, 2009, p.42)  Thus, the people came together in organization, it is necessary that they spent enough time on the strong ties. «Communication (sociability) is relatively unchanged routinized meetings and peer group, consisting of family members and friends, organized several times a week». (Granovetter, 2009, p.44) You can participate in informal cliques without kinship. But this is less important than family ties.

Granovetter brought paradox that weak ties are seen as a necessary condition for the development of capacity in individuals. It becomes a powerful mechanism for social mobility of the individual. It is an individual career growth, growth of the company, etc. Typically, the weak links is considered as the spread of alienation.

Strong ties that contribute to the formation of cohesion at the local level, leading to fragmentation.

There are restrictions and rules between the government and the media. It is the mechanism of interaction between mass media and the authorities. Shun-Shing Huang, a researcher from Taiwan, regarded awards as a symbol of the creation of professional standards. 

Theoretically, the rewards can be an important measure of professional autonomy in certain societies. But, despite this, the award in Taiwan does not necessarily mean a high level of autonomy. Instead, they have become an implicit control mechanism through which the government operates. It uses it to produce news for the formation the desired political agenda. Previous studies of the media during a state of war have focused on the restrictions imposed on the media and repressive methods to limit the freedom of the media. But the article Shun-Shing Huang examines how these awards were established and how they were used them, the government controls the news. In particular, researchers have been studying the award in Taiwan since 1950, building on the three dimensions - the characteristics of the organizers of the award, objectives and nature of the award winning works.

In the professional field the awards represent the creation of the standard and the free practice of the occupation. Awards function not only as proof of professional practice and identity that is written in the conventional codes of ethics, but also they are an important indicator of the level of professional autonomy in the region.

As a result, awards lose their social significance. It features the "professional" and the "layman". In addition, participants can imitate their predecessors, thereby stabilizing professional journalistic practice. It creates more uniformity in this field.
This is a significant difference of awards in Taiwan provided by foreign counterparts, where awards are final phase of the professionalization of journalism. 

At this point in the progression of the journalistic profession in Taiwan was affected by a number of factors. It is a professional organization of self-regulation mechanisms, formal education and the system of remuneration. The professional self-regulating mechanism was included in mass media by the government in 1960 under the context of a cartridge - client relationship. Newspaper owners received awards, registration permits and increasing the number of financial revenues. They have become symbolic capital award. (Ylva Rodny-Gumede, 2003, p. 22)

So, professional community of journalists formed under the following conditions. Firstly, there are strong norms shared by members of the community. Secondly, the existing restrictions in the professional activities do not lead to the destruction of the norms of the professional community. Third, the constant interaction between journalists, forming social networks allows you to maintain the standards, to form standards and sanctions within the community.
 
It is necessary to use methods such as quality content - analysis, semi-structured focused interview, questionnaire, and correlation analysis.

The methodology is the theory of social networks Putnam. The choice of method was due to the fact that the study needed subjective perceptions of respondents about the professional community of journalists Perm region. The questionnaire will allow a large number of journalists to interview. Correlation analysis will identify statistical relationships, the values of which will be identified in the questionnaire. The respondents of the questionnaire will be journalists, correspondents, specialists in public relations. Interviews will be taken to Igor Lobanov for detailed study of its intentions on the introduction of bonuses and other mechanisms of interaction between the media and the state.

At this point it revealed that the professional community of journalists formed under the following conditions:
-Stable norms shared by members of the community.
-There is a restriction in the exercise of professional activities do not lead to the destruction of the norms of the professional community.
-Communication between journalists, forming social networks allows you to maintain the standards, to form standards and sanctions within the community.

There are a number of rules governing the relationship between journalists in professional community of journalists. It is codes of journalists and a number of laws. Awards are an indicator of how successful journalist. The state is the absolute respect to the patron of the media and in full control of its operations.

The model of professional community is informal and closed. Its closure demonstrates high professional bar for entry into the community - namely, experience, portfolio advice and education. Just the fact of working as a journalist does not mean the inclusion in the professional community. The journalist is obliged to adhere to ethical and follow the policy wording. In this model there are weak links and horizontal relationships. Weak links contribute to the development opportunities and career mobility of individuals and, consequently, the development model of the professional community. On the model imposed a number of restrictions, namely the restriction of the law, a limited number of experts, the impossibility of deciding without heads and dependences by regional authorities.
In Perm community journalists a high level of trust in each other. This indicates the presence of horizontal social networks. Despite of this fact, Journalists Union does not play role in the media - Arena. He has no influence on the regional political scene. Real journalists’ interaction occurs at the level of informal practices.

A hypothesis for further investigation is the fact that the state creates the necessary agenda with the help of the mass media. Reporters, who create horizontal networks, try to resist. But this is not enough to talk of a free journalism in Perm Krai. 

The study conceptualized the main approaches to the study of social networks and analyzed the professional community political journalists as an example of the Perm region. This corresponds to the tasks of the study. Analysis of the professional community of Perm region will help identify the mechanisms of interaction between journalists and the authorities. At the moment the main research task is to create a high - quality instrumentation for the questionnaire survey and interviews. This will help to test the hypothesis of the fact that the state creates the necessary agenda with the help of the mass media.