Introduction
Background. The problem of the absence of the legal regulation of domestic violence in the Russian Federation is considered one of the most controversial issues in modern society. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: it is necessary to regulate the issue of the counteraction of domestic violence at the legislative level, and the state should not interfere in family affairs. Both of the approaches have recognition of the problem of domestic violence in common, but their main difference is the necessity of criminalization of this phenomenon. Previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of domestic violence into the context of its legal definition, highlighting its significant features.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: the difficulty of maintaining a balance of private and public interests in combating domestic violence, as well as the lack of legal regulation of domestic violence in the Russian Federation and the imperfection of the legal regulation of combating domestic violence in a number of foreign countries. The purpose is to identify aspects of legal regulation in the field of domestic violence on the basis of the comparative analysis of counteraction domestic violence on the example of the experience of the Russian Federation and foreign countries such as Germany, Vietnam, and some other ones. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
To investigate the current state of the problem of domestic violence in the Russian Federation:
To analyze the features, types, and forms of domestic violence;
To consider the legal regulation of counteraction domestic violence in modern Russia and to study the foreign experience of combating domestic violence on the example of Germany, Vietnam and some other countries;
To identify problems arising within the framework of the issues under consideration and to propose methods against domestic violence.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the nature of domestic violence and its features, which allow us to identify it and to find a measure against it and to predict a measure to prevent it. One of the delimitations of the study is there is no legislative regulation of domestic violence in the Russian Federation; moreover, beatings were decriminalized. And the last delimitation is the high latency of domestic violence, which makes it difficult to clearly understand the scale of the problem.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project, the first task to deal with is to analyze the concept of the phenomenon of domestic violence in Russian and foreign legal systems in order to differentiate commonalities and differences in its approaches. To attain the goal it will be extremely worthwhile to classify types of counteraction and measures for domestic violence prevention advocated by various researches. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for various scholars, who are engaged in public international law, criminal law and those, who are interested in the sphere of domestic violence.
Literature Review
Since domestic violence is a sensitive and complex issue in many countries it is important to understand that legislative measures are taken to counter this phenomenon. An increased number of cases of domestic violence in Spain was a catalyst for the adoption of the Organic Act 1/2004 on Integrated Protection Measures against Gender Violence (Integral Act) in 2004. The issue is discussed in the study by Carmen Méndez. 
The author identifies a number of legislative changes that have positively affected the reduction of the number of cases of domestic violence:
Integral Act defines the concept of domestic violence, which refers to any psychological or minor physical impact that does not require medical intervention. Previously, legal regulation excludes psychological violence, which is usually «the initial manifestation of physical violence»;
Trials for complaints of domestic violence are conducted within 15 days of the commission of the crime.
The intent of the article "Violence Against Women in South Africa: Policy Position and Recommendations" by , ,  is to reflect on the specificity of two acts: the Domestic Violence Act №116 of 1998 and  Sexual Offence and Related Matters Act №32. The authors note the following progressive provision of these acts: domestic violence can occur between different subjects of family relationships and even with cohabitation. The authors conclude that domestic violence in South Africa is a cultural practice that makes it very difficult to counteract it.
The law on preventing and combating domestic violence was adopted in Vietnam 10 years ago. Le, T.M., Morley, C., Hill, P.S. (2019) put focus on that “all expenses for medical care and treatment for domestic violence victims shall be covered by the medical insurance funds if victims hold medical insurance cards”. It was a step forward: previously, such injuries were considered intentional harm and covered at the expense of the perpetrator. 
Kumar S. and Chary N. argue that “yet no other major problem of public health has been so widely ignored and so little understood”. According to statistics provided in the study, the most common form of domestic violence in India is physical abuse, and 2 out of 3 women experience domestic violence by their partner. The authors suggest that such a serious scale of domestic violence may be associated with the pathetic position of the women despite all efforts of governmental and non-governmental agencies.
Domestic violence in Pakistan has acquired such a scale and depth that it threatens the security of the individual and the whole society. Tahir М. analyzes “the misuse of social and cultural values and religious norms in the Pakistani society”.
The authors identify the following main problem in the sphere of domestic violence to be explored: male dominance is supported not only at the cultural level but also by society, politics, etc. It is very difficult to change centuries-old traditions.
The law on domestic violence was also adopted in Indonesia in 2004. Hayati, E. N., Emmelin, M., Eriksson, M. point out that some fields of the research on domestic violence have not received all the attention they deserve so far. For instance, the lack of consensus on the definition criteria causes numerous problems in practice. The authors draw attention to the fact that the term "domestic violence" is most often used when referring to violence against women. 
In his article “Legal protection against domestic violence in Greece: critical observations” Obessi Ph. provides information that in Greece 56% of the women admit that they sustain verbal or psychological violence. We need to analyze how the terms “domestic violence” and “family” are interpreted in the law relating to the effacement of domestic violence. The term "domestic violence" is used by the law to define the commission of a series of punishable acts against a family member or members. The term "family" defines the community that consists of spouses or parents, and by blood or in-law relatives of the first and second degree, as well as their offspring by adoption. The family also includes any relatives up to the fourth degree who cohabit with the above-mentioned persons. Of course, an attempt to expand the range of subjects that fall under the definition of "family member" seems justified. However, this is not always the case.
Hess C., Del Rosario A. (2018) pay attention to the impact of domestic violence on the ability to work or get an education. Among the adverse effects of domestic violence in this area are the following:
Disrupting the ability to complete education;
Training through tactics;
Not allowing access to money to pay for school or university or other needs.
Currently, in the Russian Federation, there is a law on the decriminalization of beatings. Changes were made to article 116 of the Criminal Code of Russia. If such beatings are committed for the first time, they are transferred from the category of criminal offences to the category of administrative offences. However, repeated incidents of violence remain criminal offences.
The draft of the Federal law "On the prevention of family and domestic violence" is designed to improve legislation in the field of creating a legal mechanism for the implementation of economic, social and political measures taken by the state in the field of combating violence in the domestic sphere. The need to adopt a specialized law on the prevention of family and domestic violence is due to the lack of a systematic approach to this problem in Russia. Legal education and legal information, preventive conversation, protective order, judicial protective order, preventive accounting, preventive control, assistance in a social adaptation of persons subjected to family and domestic violence, their social rehabilitation are offered as forms of preventive impact.
Thus, over the last couple of years, the scholars’ interest in domestic violence has been increasing steadily. None of the present-day works on the problem of domestic violence can be defined as a complex study encompassing different levels of medieval reality, from political to intellectual. 
Methods
The research methodology was based on two methods: the analysis method and the interpretation of legal acts. The method of analysis is basic. It will be used to study the legal regulation of the institution of domestic violence and methods of counteracting it, as well as reviewing statistical data. As an additional method, the interpretation of legal acts was chosen, which will make it possible to comprehend the studied legal sources in their relationships. In addition, the comparative-legal method is crucial to identify differences in the mechanisms for regulating issues related to domestic violence in national and international law. In the course work used some other methods of scientific knowledge.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of domestic violence and the data of the judicial practice of Russian and foreign courts over the period 2014-2019 shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by Russian and foreign authors reveals that in some countries domestic violence is a criminal offence, while in the Russian Federation it still remains outside the field of legal regulation. It means that the subject under questions is investigated only in the framework of the doctrine, and researchers have different views on the basic categories of domestic violence. I infer that the problem of the absence of legal regulation of domestic violence in the Russian Federation should be considered one of the issues requiring a prompt response from the state. The data is presented by the doctrine of Russian researchers over the period 2014-2019. It shows that domestic violence has long been a national problem, but it is still not regulated at the legislative level. All this determines the solution of the problem of the absence of the legal regulation of domestic violence in the Russian Federation. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the topic of domestic violence is socially significant all over the world because the family is the foundation of the state and society. It means that many states have an active policy of preventing this phenomenon and are struggling with its consequences.
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to previously conducted research by Russian and foreign scientists. In the context of studying the problem of domestic violence, another interesting aspect emerges, that of the victimization. As far as the practical side of the issue is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analyzing the effectiveness of law enforcement agencies. 
The findings are essential for law theory and legal practice. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for penal and administrative law learners to differentiate the degree of severity of the consequences of domestic violence and to use proper terminology in the sphere of domestic violence. 
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of counteraction domestic violence for further study of the issue as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
