Introduction
Background.  The problem of trust management was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: transfer all rights and transfer of limited rights. Both of these approaches have transfer of the main rights in common, but their main difference is the transfer of special rights. The problem of transferring property to trust in inheritance  is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern legal studies have special appreciation for  study of this topic as they reflect the principles of transfer of property to trust in succession. The problem  has been widely studied over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach (concept) that could put all the diverse accounts of the contract of trust management into the context of legal relations between parties to the contract. 
Problem statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: trust management is usually considered as a voluntary agreement of the parties, while there are some researches who make an attempt to regard it as a way to hide the property's beneficiary. The purpose is to analyze the legal  nature of trust management and to describe the relations between manager and the  trustor. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following: 
Identify the legal nature of the trust agreement and its difference from other civil contracts; 
Analyze the content of the asset trust agreement;
Explore the subject composition of the asset trust agreement; 
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the nature of trust contract and its elements which allow to identify it and prevent abuse of right. This determines some difficulties in interpretation of various approaches to the concept of trust management. More than that one of the delimitation of the study, connected with the previous one, is the essential  difference of foreign and Russian legal systems. And finally, the last delimitation is the restricted access to the data on contracts of trust management due to the fact that not all Russians contracts are accessed on-line. 
Professional significance. In the framework of the project the first task to deal with is to analyze the concept of trust management in Russian legal system. This will allow to analyze the key factors of the contract of trust management and develop criteria for its evaluation. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worth, while to study the legal nature of the contract of trust management. Besides it seems to be particularly useful to analyze the Civil Code on trust to formulate probable measures to be taken for effective abuse of right prevention in Russian legislation. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for various scholars, students of law faculties, and lawyers who investigate the institute of trust management of property in Russia. Since the issue studied is of utmost legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in civil law studies and economic activities including financiers, bankers and brokers. 
Literature Review
A great number of Russians and foreign works analyse the trust institution. While Russians authors focus on legal nature, foreign authors accent in the economic component of the contract. 
So, Alicia E. Plerhopes is the author of the article that deals with the representation of social enterprises - nonprofit and for-profit organizations whose managers strategically and purposefully work to create social, environmental, and economic value or achieve a social good through business techniques. The author reveals, that social enterprise includes enterprises that are defined as such because of “how” they operate: “they employ internal governance structures and practices to create social and environmental value”.
Another article considers the features of the most important elements of the trust industry, their historical origins and their application to modern trust practices. The author propose, that trust departments have combined traditional skills and modern practices to operate as profit-making centers in their banks. One of the aims of this study is to present how trust departments handle guardianships and estate settlements, areas where human relations skills are is important business expertise. 
Such authors as Rehahn J., Grimm A. make a comparison of Europe trust system. Their article is devoted to the an attempt to study innovative processes of the European legal system. The authors highlight the peculiarities of the “trust-like” mechanisms of the German and Austrian laws. The article shows, that on the one hand, some Austrian terms coincide with the German lexical system and on the other hand, they are similar to the terms of the Roman law. 
The comparison of government control measures we can see in the Goodhart Charles's  work. This paper includes information that highlights some of the failings of the new European regulatory regime. The author is trying to answer for the questions “what should be done?” and “who should do what?” The main idea of this study is analysis of financial market and the offering risk reduction options of trading in financial markets. 
The aim of the study is to create a comprehensive review of theory and practice of investment activities we can see in Reilly’s F,K. work. The study covers a separation of research into investment theory and analysis of specific asset management. Moreover, the author of this study focuses on the stock market, investment evaluation and financial management. The author supposes that once the funds are initially invested according to the plan, the real work begins in monitoring and updating the status of the portfolio and the investor’s needs. 
I beleieve that on the moving on to Russian work, we should start with Alexandrina’s M.A. work. The main goal that the author of this paper pursues is to highlight some of the problems in the institution of the asset trust agreement and ways to solve them. The author believes that “the institution of trust management is given unjustifiably great importance” - according to M. Alexandrina, the need to use trust management is only in cases where it is impossible to establish the right of operational management or economic management.. 
Another Russian author - Benevolenskaya Z. E. in her work says about trust management of property in the field of entrepreneurship. The author shows the relationship between the practical feasibility of trusting the property of legal entities (corporations) and the degree of autonomy of will and property isolation of a legal entity. The problem that the author is concerned within this article is the relevance of trust management of property in the Russian Federation at present as a way to most effectively manage state assets  and private assets. The author’s point of view, is that trust is an obligation by virtue of which the owner transfers the property on the basis of special trust to a person who undertakes to manage the property in the interests of the owner or the person indicated by him for reward. 
The problem of transfer to trust of certain rights from securities is a theme of Sattarova’s A.Z. work. This article deals with the separation of the values ​​of transfer to trust management of specific property rights recorded in a security and the establishment by the trust agreement of restrictions regarding the exercise by the trustee of specific “rights from paper” - powers the owner. Sattarova A.Z. addresses the problem of the possibility of transferring to trust management of certain rights from securities.
The use of money as an object of trust management contract we can find in Fokina's N. A. research. The paper discusses the issue of legal regulation of such an object of law as money and cash, raises the question of the possibility of trust management of cash taking into account their features as an object of rights and also addresses the legal problems of trust management of non-cash funds. The author says: “an object of trust can be an individually defined property located in ownership of the trustor ” while money is patrimonial (property), and the founder of trust, transferring them, automatically loses the right to own them.
The legal nature of trust management contract we can see in Shagivalieva’s I.Z. research. The article includes a consideration of the problem of legal guarantees for the protection and preservation of hereditary property through trust management of property. The author suggests that the most correct definition of this institution is the definition given by E. A. Yanushkevich, because it, in the opinion of the author of the article, “reflects the essence and distinguishing features of trust management of hereditary property”. 
Methods
For examination of the problem, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to access the current state of the Russian legislation regulating institute of trust management, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of the Civil Code of Russia. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of trust management of property and to identify the legal mechanisms of the contract of this area. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of the theory and practical use legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of trust manager’s competencies in order identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal norms governing the rights and obligations of parties in the contract of trust management to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of the trust management. 
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of trust management act and the data on this arbitrage practice shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by legal scholars reveals that the use of different legal bases leads to different doctrine of the righteous. It means that researches have different views on the subjects under question. I infer that the problem of different points of view should be considered by the Collegium of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation on Economic Disputes. Achieved outcomes, grounded exclusively on scientific and practical points of view, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the use of this institute in practice in Russia.
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of the scientific doctrine. The data is presented by cases of court practice. It shows that an amount of cases has not increased dramatically. It gives details on the main problem, that parties of contract try to solve in the court. 
All this determines the solution of the problem of the amount of rights, that transfer from trustor to trust manager. The study of rights, that trust manager get plays a fundamental role in research of institute of trust management and contributes greatly to development of private banking. I hope my research will help  to solve the problems that arise in trustees. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the contract of trust management is a law of obligation. It means that the trust manager has not to contract ownership. This does not follow from previous researches on this theme due to the lack of a complex approach.  It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of trust management of concrete types of property because the rights of the trustee to a different property may be different. 
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to other researches.  In the context of using a trust management contract, another interesting aspect emerges, that of the transfer of property in trust under the inheritance.  The potential for this research lies, first of all, in enriching the methodology, which can be achieved through the use of practice knowledge, theory application and by incorporating complex research methods.  
The findings are essential for legal practice, and economic activity.  The results may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing trust managers and businessmen, legal experts, and law enforcement officials. 
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities to trust management. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to the trust management contract by providing various tools for analysis and effective use. Since the project focuses mainly on the court practice and relevant literature review, it will follow descriptive, and evaluative research designs,  built on qualitative methods.
