Introduction
Background. The problem of protection against hostile takeovers is considered as one of the most vital issues in Russian corporate law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: correspondence between measures executed and the attack power and the need for timely monitoring of corporate security. Both approaches have a direct dependency, but their main difference is when measures are implied.
Another aspect of hostile takeover regulation, which makes the concept of anti-takeover measures usage stand out among other legal matters, is that in the EU the applied active measure must correspond to the attacking method. This is a fact of paramount relevance since modern legal studies have a special appreciation for the method of comparative-legal analysis as they reflect another dimension of anti-takeover defence that is the most functioning. The problem of corporate security has been widely studied over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive concept that could put all the diverse accounts of the application of measures depending on the market position.
Problem statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: measures of corporate defence differ in various jurisdictions, but there are generally accepted measures, which unfortunately are not available to Russian companies in the existing legal realities. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to find out new ways of improvement of Russian legislation, by inclusion world general measures or development of own solutions. In conformity with the purpose of the study the research project objectives are:
1. To study the problems of applying methods of counteracting hostile takeovers in the Russian Federation
2. To explore the essence of the concept and features of a hostile takeover in the United States, Germany, and the Netherlands
3. Investigate countermeasures against hostile takeovers applied in the US, Germany, and the Netherlands
4. Compare measures used to counter unfriendly takeovers in Russia, USA, Germany, and the Netherlands
5. Assess the effectiveness of the measures taken.
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the measures executed to counter hostile takeovers in different countries, their features and application procedure. This determines some difficulties in the interpretation of various approaches to the concept of authority to implement protective measures based on diverse corporate governance approaches. More than that one of the delimitations of the study, connected with the previous one, is the essential difference between the history of the development of anti-takeover measures in various countries. And finally, the last delimitation is the difficulty of comparing the Russian legal system with the legal systems of European countries.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project, the first task to deal with is to analyse the concept of hostile takeovers in Russian and foreign legal systems in order to differentiate commonalities and differences in the approach of Anglo-Saxon and Germanic law. This will allow to analyse the key factors of hostile takeovers and develop criteria for its identification and evaluation. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile to classify types of counteraction and measures for takeover prevention advocated by various researchers. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to analyse the articles of foreign researches to formulate probable measures to be taken for effective takeover prevention in Russian legislation.
Literature review
A significant number of Russian and foreign researchers have devoted their works to the issues raised in the research. Currently, more and more researchers in the field of law are addressing issues of company governance, hostile takeover protection and problems of development legislation in this sphere.
The current state of corporate governance in the Russian Federation is inextricably connected and dependent on the economic system of Russia. For the qualitative analysis of corporate governance, we are planning to analyze the structure of the legislature in this sphere. Erakhtina O.S. concludes that creating an effective corporate governance system can be divided into two main areas: settlement of relations with minority shareholders and exercising control over executive management bodies. The author believes that the first area includes: the procedure for notifying shareholders of ordinary and extraordinary general meetings of shareholders; the procedure for notifying shareholders of a repeat general meeting; the procedure for conducting and deciding at general meetings of shareholders, including the determination of a quorum; the procedure for exercising the preemptive right of shareholders to acquire shares in a company; the procedure for obtaining information about the activities of the company by its shareholders.
In the article, Nelleke Krol, Peter Corten, Jelmer Kalisvaart, and Michel van Agt set the main goal of their study to analyze the measures to counteract unfriendly takeovers in the Netherlands after the reform. Researchers emphasize some major changes in this sphere. First of all, the response time for an offer to purchase assets is set in one year. Secondly, is the simplification of the issue of preferred shares or their transfer to an independent organization. Moreover, there is an increase in the minimum percentage of shares that must be offered for purchase. Finally, the participant can submit his memorandum of the proposal for approval to the Dutch Supervisory Authority (AFM) only after the board of the target company is given the opportunity to "respond" to the ongoing takeover.
Jonathan Mukwiri focuses on analyzing the implementation of the European Union anti-takeover directive in Germany. The author concludes that acquisitions in Germany are not so common because the traditional structure of the German economy, Deutschland AG or Germany Incorporated, is characterized by banks that own a significant amount of shares in huge German companies and traditionally do not want to sell their shares to others.
Megan K. Jackson, Keith L. Johnson, Woomin Kang analyze the legislative base in the field of regulation of measures to counteract unfriendly takeovers in the USA. The authors conclude that legal requirements that apply to a hostile takeover in the U.S. are complex and inextricably intertwined between federal law, state law, and company charter or bylaw provisions. These governing requirements affect the relative bargaining positions of boards, bidders, and shareholders, and make the dynamics of each transaction different. Because of this complexity, the impact that they will have on specific situations can be difficult to predict.
Martijn Kesler investigates countermeasures against hostile takeovers in Holland. One of the problems described in his work is that the structure of companies does not always allow control over shareholders. According to the author, such control is necessary, since usually unfriendly takeovers take place through shareholders, so if a company cannot control them, then with a greater probability she will be merged. The author refers to such a mechanism as the Trust Office Foundation, indicating that such a fund is often used in larger public companies to prevent hostile takeovers. By creating a Trust Management Fund in the form of an open joint-stock company and concentrating on voting rights in the fund with indirect control, the company can simultaneously protect its business and raise capital.
Sean Ross considers, that even if the company exhibits significant barriers to entry, a lack of competitive rivalry in the industry, a minimal threat of substitute products or services, minimal bargaining power of the buyers and minimal bargaining power of the suppliers, the case for implementing preemptive hostile strategies while developing a thorough understanding of responsive takeover defence mechanisms is highly advised. Moreover, author outlines key measures to counter hostile takeovers: poison pill defence (flip-in and flip-over options), staggered board defence (re-election of the board of directors, or its group several times), white knight defence, the white knight is an assistant company (grey and black variants), greenmail defence (buyback of shares from an individual shareholder with a large reward).
Andreas Lohner и Gerald Schumann highlight that the main potential safeguards against acquisition are: lawsuits against the bidder, media campaigns, public confrontation between the bidder and the target company and legal or structural protective measures. Researchers conclude that in Germany unfriendly takeovers were not so common and therefore, most positions regarding protection against unfriendly takeovers became more a subject of debate in legal literature than in practice. Moreover, with the exception of a few isolated cases, case law regarding measures of protection against hostile takeovers is quite rare in Germany.
Mathias Bülow, Matthias Full, Flick Gocke Schaumburgforeign outline, that ownership is to some extent limited by German investment control rules applicable to private mergers and acquisitions. Moreover, these rules have been tightened recently and are expected to be tightened more at the level of national legislation and EU legislation. In accordance with the Foreign Trade and Payments Regulation (AWV), the Federal Ministry of Economics (BMWi) may prohibit or restrict the direct or indirect acquisition of at least 10% of the voting rights of a German company (for acquisitions in which involve certain companies that are not working in vital areas of the economy that are explicitly listed in AWV, a higher threshold is applied, amounting to at least 25% of voting rights).
Researchers from CMS Hasche Sigle Partnerschaft von Rechtsanwälten und Steuerberatern mbB emphasize that there may be the following cases where the board of directors deviates from EU neutrality doctrine: actions that a prudent and conscientious company manager would take (if there was no threat of takeover), search for a competitor ("white knight"), actions approved by the supervisory board of the target company (which, however, should be strictly aimed at the greatest benefit for the company) or actions authorized by the decision of shareholders for prevent absorption. The authors conclude that, given the tight deadlines for the absorption process, in most cases, protective measures are effective only if they were implemented or, at least, prepared before the start of the absorption. Proactive protective measures should be checked first of all for compliance with the law on joint-stock companies. Each measure should be in the interests of the company.		
Methods.
For examination of corporate defence institutions, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating this sphere, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of reception of some provisions of European law. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of Russian and European legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of anti-takeover measures in order to identify their differences. Finally, the formal-legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of CEO and board of directors, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of corporate defence.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of using different anti-takeover measures and the data on the efficiency of their application shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by German authors reveals that regulation of corporate defence institution differs significantly from other EU countries. It means that government take a predominant role in the regulation of this sphere in Germany. They regard it as a speciality but sometimes it could be an obstacle for normal market functioning. I infer that the problem of insufficient regulation of corporate defence in Russi should be considered by legal authorities in order to avoid economic problems in future. This gives the perspective of the implementation of new norms into the Civil Code and the federal law about joint-stock companies. Achieved outcomes, grounded on a considerable research basis, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate this process.
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the legal regulation of anti-takeover measures application quite complicated. It means that there is a substantial need of the authorities to elaborate provisions in this sphere.  It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of EU experience because of such institutions developed there for a longer time.
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities for developing new measures to protect the company from a hostile takeover. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to anti-takeover measures application by providing various tools for analysis and a better understanding of such instruments. Since the project focuses mainly on corporate defence topic and relevant literature review, it will follow comparative analysis built on legislative regulation of different countries qualitative analysis of each measure.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of anti-takeover measures application for further study of this sphere as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.












