Introduction
Background 
One of the most significant current discussions in the Russian doctrine and law enforcement is a possibility to apply criminal liability to legal entities. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign researchers and legal practitioners. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: Continental law approach which is used in European and Asian countries and Common law approach which is used in the USA and the UK. These approaches have their own reasons for using or not applying criminal liability, as well as different mechanisms for applying such liability.
Another aspect of criminal liability application to legal entities is determination of guilt of a legal entity as the main ground of criminal liability. The problem of the criminal mechanism has been widely studied over the last two decades. Nevertheless previous studies seem to lack a comprehensive concept that could put all the diverse accounts of guilt into the context of criminal liability.
Criminal liability of legal entities is not introduced in Russian law, while most of countries use it effectively. It is hypothesized that application of criminal liability to legal entities will increase detection of crimes, as well as reduce crime rate in the future. And the research is aimed to determine the possibilities the mechanism application.
Problem statement 
The problem of this study can be defined as follows:
Criminal liability has been functioning for a long time in the USA and the UK and for recent decades in Europe and Asia, while in Russia such criminal mechanism has not been applied yet. This all determines the purpose of the research which is to identify the possibilities of criminal liability application to legal entities in Russia.
According to the purpose the study objectives are the following:
1. To define the terms of criminal liability in Russian law. 
2. To study the foreign experience of application of Criminal liability to legal entities
3. To identify the problem and possibilities of application of this mechanism in Russian law
Delimitations of the study 
This project focuses on the nature of criminal liability and legal entities. This will help to identify the difficulties of its application to such type of the subject. The other delimitation is connected with differences in Russian and foreign criminal systems.
Professional significance  
In the framework of the study the first task to deal with is to analyze the Russian Criminal Code to reveal the terms of criminal liability. This will determine the key factors of its application. It will be also worthwhile to explore criminal liability of legal entities in other countries and Russian law projects and the doctrine conceptions of this mechanism to reveal definite perspectives of its application.
The research can establish the main difficulties with application of criminal liability to legal entities and ways to overcome them. The issue is of at most legal and social concern, and the results of this study can help to develop clear recommendations of criminalization of offenses committed by legal entities.
Literature Review
The terms and conditions of criminal liability are determined in the Criminal Code of Russian Federation. According to article 19 of the Criminal Code «only a sane natural person who has reached the statutory age envisaged by this Code shall be subject to criminal liability». Criminal liability is not applied to legal entities in Russia.
The main law that determines legal entities and their nature is the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. According to article 48 of the Code «The legal entity is an organization, which has in its ownership, economic management or operative management, the set-apart property and which is answerable by its obligations with this property and may on its own behalf acquire and exercise the property and the personal non- property rights, to discharge duties and to come out as a plaintiff and as a defendant in the court». 
A considerable amount of valuable research work in the criminal law doctrine has been done to resolve the problem of application of criminal liability to legal entities. 
There are a lot of countries which apply criminal liability to legal entities. In the USA such mechanism is named as corporate criminal liability. This institute is criticized by Edward B. Diskant. He argues that criminal prosecution of corporations for crimes committed by their directors and managers causes devastating financial and reputational repercussion that forces companies out of business. The author concludes that the American criminal system needs to be reformed by limitation of rights to defense for corporation, as well as limitations in prosecutor’s rights. 
Criminal liability of legal entities exists in most of European countries, particularly in the Chech Republic. According to Kalvodova Vera, that institute is introduced by the Act No. 4198|2111 Coll. on The Criminal Liability of legal Entities and on Proceeding against them by 2012. Due to this law, punishments that may be applied to legal entities are the following: Winding-up the company; Confiscation of a property; Pecuniary punishment; etc.
The author also proposes to introduce supervision system over the activities of legal entities and conditional ban as punishments.
Belgium is another country with criminal liability of legal entities. According to Emmanuelle De Bock, Belgium had been rejecting corporate criminal liability for a long time until recently. In 1999 the Belgian Criminal Code was updated with the new article, due to which a corporation is recognized as liable for a crime «if there is a sufficient or a close link between that offence and the corporation». 
Poland also has such a criminal liability mechanism. Marcin Ciemiński  describes the Polish corporate criminal liability as follows: liability of legal entities depends on individual’s liability. However the new draft Act by the Ministry of Justice by 28 May 2018 proposes to prosecute corporations separately from the individuals. 
Italy has its own approach to corporate criminal liability. According to C. Cravetto, E. Zanalda, criminal liability for legal entities is introduced by the Legislative Decree No. 231/2001. Due to this Act, legal entities are liable for crimes committed by its managers and employees in their interests or to their advantage. However, authors assume that legal entity would not be liable for fortuitous advantage as a result of a natural person’s activity if such legal entity did not have any interest on its behalf subsists.
The perspective to apply criminal liability to legal entities is discussed in the Russian Doctrine. Fedorov A.V. comes up with some arguments for its introduction. For example, in conditions of economic development criminal liability of legal entities is a very effective criminal law tool in other countries. 
Another vital aspect of criminal liability of legal entities is psychological relationship to crimes. Avital Mentovich and Moran Cerf assume that criminal liability should  be applied to legal entities in order to meet the social need of retribution. The authors summarize that it is possible to determine the intention of a legal entity as an intention of its members. 
There are two main approaches to determination of a legal person’s fault in the foreign criminal doctrine, according to Neil Cavanagh. Due to the first concept, liability of legal entity is connected with actions of its employees and managers. This theory includes the identification doctrine, the senior management test, the doctrine of vicarious liability and the aggregation doctrine. The second approach is aimed to divide legal persons and individuals and includes the corporate culture and the structural negligence doctrines. 
The issue of criminal liability of legal entities in discussed in the Russian criminal law doctrine.
According to Antonova E.U. the reasons of criminal liability of collective entities are the following:
- Legal entities can commit more dangerous crimes than individuals.
- Non-regulation of collective entities as criminals can have negative consequences.
- Russia has adopted a number of international legal obligations, which are difficult to implement without the possibility of regulating the activities of organizations by a criminal legal mechanism.
The problems of application of criminal liability are discussed by Bytko U. I. He agreed with the bill of the Investigative Committee, which proposed the following types of punishments: warning, fine, deprivation of license, quotas, benefits, deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities, a ban on activities in the Russian Federation and forced liquidation. Moreover, he offered publication of a court sentence as a punishment.
Thus, over the last decades the scholars’ interest in criminal liability to legal entities has been increasing steadily. The problems raised in the researches tend to become more diverse, from the reasons of absence of such institution to measures of its introduction.
Methods
Various methods will be used to examine the perspective to apply criminal liability to legal entities. Firstly, analysis will help to describe the current state of criminal liability in Russia and forms of liability of legal entities. Also this method is used to estimate the concepts proposed by scientists. 
Secondly, statistical method allows to calculate the percentage of crimes committed by legal entities. The historical analysis will identify the background and terms of application of the criminal mechanism to legal entities.
Finally, the comparative legal method will help to make a comparison of foreign legal crime systems with the Russian criminal system in order to determine the effectiveness of criminal liability of legal entities.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of criminal liability of legal entities and the data on crime statistics and court decisions shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by various criminal law researchers reveals number of approaches to liability of legal entities. One group of researchers assume that it is necessary to change the Criminal Code of The Russian Federation in order to prosecute legal entities, others believe the administrative liability is enough to punish such entities. I infer that the problem of criminal liability should be considered as a perspective of application of such liability to corporations and unitary enterprises. Achieved outcomes, grounded on analysis of works display numerous problems and oversights in the Russian Criminal Code.
Analysis of the data allows outlining the results in terms of legal practice. The data is presented by judicial decisions of Russian and foreign courts, and crime statistics. It shows that criminal liability can be an effective mechanism of a penalty for crimes committed by legal entitles.
I hope me research will help in development of concept of criminal liability of legal entities and its further legislation.
Conclusion
The initial results of this study allow me to conclude that the current system of legal liability of legal entities is not effective enough since criminal liability is not applied to them. Therefore, it is necessary to take measures to introduce the institution of criminal liability to legal entities. From what was discussed, it follows that serious attention should be paid to the study of guilt, motivation, interest and punishment of legal entities, because the existing criminal law system cannot ensure the effective functioning of this institution.
Therefore, this study can be regarded as an addition to the criminal doctrine. The potential of this study lies in modernization of the approach to legal entities as subjects capable of bearing criminal liability. As for the grounds for criminal liability, it seems appropriate to supplement the data obtained by analyzing foreign sources. 
The data obtained are necessary for development of the Russian legislation. The results can have significant practical implications for law enforcement officials, courts, and practicing lawyers. Since the project focuses mainly on statistics and reviews of relevant literature, it will follow descriptive and evaluative research plans based on comparison, analysis.
To summarize, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the field of criminal liability for further development of criminal law, since the data obtained contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
