Introduction
Background. There is currently growing interest to the institute of subsidiary responsibility (hereinafter SR) in the Russian Federation. Special significance this institute has in bankruptcy proceedings, because nowadays it is a most frequently used way to satisfy creditors’ requests. However, norms concerning SR have a lot of gaps, due to which controlling bodies can avoid responsibility. Increasing number of researchers try to analyze the institute of SR and find solutions to the existing problems. Nevertheless, there is no complex recent investigation in this sphere. Most of works are dedicated to the separate aspects of this institute that can only partially explain the nature of SR. They are also usually related to the responsibility of CEO. Thus, additional research seems to be needed in the sphere of founders’ and beneficiaries’ responsibility. Foreign theorists hold quite various doctrines about such responsibility, while in our country this issue is not enough investigated.
Problem Statement. The overall goal of the proposed study is to make a complex analysis of the institute of SR to identify existing problems in the process of bringing controlling bodies to responsibility and on this basis make a contribution to the development of the institute of SR.  
Within this purpose the following objectives will be addressed:
Examination of the definition of the SR
Analysis of the underlying logic of the development of the concept of SR;
Exploration of the existing grounds and procedure for bringing to SR
Moreover, to achieve abovementioned aim foreign doctrines will be investigated though there is no question of going into details but rather on taking a broad view of them. 
Delimitations of the Study. The concept of SR is complicated and versatile. Thus, it seems necessary to confine it and focus on SR of controlling bodies only in bankruptcy proceedings.
Professional Significance. This work will have theoretical and practical significance. Firstly, it will have a contribution to the theory of SR, which is urgent because nowadays there is no complex investigation in this sphere. Secondly, it may be substantial for all those who are engaged in bankruptcy proceedings as it will provide greater depth of knowledge about the appliance of norms concerning SR. 
Definitions of Key Terms. To clarify the proposal, it is necessary to define the following core terms that are related to the area of study.
Insolvency means that a company is unable to pay debts.
Subsidiary responsibility is an obligation of controlling bodies to pay part of the company’s credits that are not settled in the liquidation, if they are declared to be persons affected by the judgment declaring the insolvency as fault-based.
Doctrine of piercing the corporate veil means treating the rights and liabilities or activities of a company as the rights or liabilities or activities of its shareholders.
Principle of limited liability means that legal personality of a company is separate from that of its members.
Literature Review 
The present literature review will be based on the Russian and foreign theoretical studies in the sphere of SR. In most of these researches authors made attempts to modify the theoretical basis of this institute and suggest innovative potentially important ideas to remove contradictions between court practice and legislation. The papers also reflect significant intention to deepen and push forward the concept of SR to expand grounds for calling to it. Nevertheless, most of them are dedicated to the distinct aspects of the institute of SR. For example, dissertation written by Evteev on the problem of transboundary insolvency, Nikolaev’s works that were related to the status of controlling bodies, researches made by Egorov, in which he compared SR and other types of responsibility.
First of all, it is necessary to address the evolution of the analyzed institute. For many years SR applied only to the managers and rarely to the “mother” companies. However, nowadays studies on the founders’ responsibility are at the heart of numerous discussions in Russian science. Scholars get more specific and investigate new theories that are far from Russian legislation to understand the possibility of its appliance in Russia. For instance, the theory of piercing the corporate veil, which allows to bring to responsibility controlling bodies in spite of the principle of limited liability of shareholders for the debts of the company. In Anglo-American law system courts use different tests to analyze the necessity of piercing. Such tests can consist of different number of elements from 3 to 11, however Alting stated that “they all have the common elements of control and fraud (injustice or unfairness perpetrated on the creditor)”. Forgi noted that “separate legal personality of a company will be disregarded only if the court deems that there is, in fact or in law, a partnership between companies in a group, or that there is a mere sham or facade in which that company is playing a role, or that the creation or use of the company was designed to enable a legal or fiduciary obligation to be evaded or a fraud to be perpetrated”.
The theory of piercing the corporate veil inspires a great deal of intense debate among Russian professionals, not only in academic sphere but also in judicial community. Special attention deserves the Evteev’s work, in which he has compared foreign doctrines concerning SR, specifically doctrine of piercing the corporate veil, instrumental doctrine, alter-ego doctrine, agency doctrine. Most of the investigators suppose that it is necessary to implement such theories in Russian legislation. For example, Egorov and Usacheva mentioned that theory of piercing the corporate veil allows to investigate the possible influence of controlling bodies more fully than the existing norms Russian legislation. On the other hand, other researchers maintained that for Russian legal system the theory of piercing the corporate veil is inappropriate, because judges and lawyers are not used to make a thorough economic analysis. In any case increasing scientific support and graduate change in court practice towards the enlargement of responsibility in bankruptcy proceedings confirm the necessity for deep changes in the subject of SR and open prospects for further studies. 
One of the most significant concepts in the sphere of SR is a concept of fiduciary duties of controlling bodies, which includes the duties of care and loyalty. Ball based on court practice found that “in the zone of insolvency, directors and officers develop a fiduciary duty to the subsidiary’s creditors, its residual owners” or they can be brought to responsibility. However, Huebner and Klein conversely noticed that before bankruptcy proceedings such duties should be developed to the company and not creditors or shareholders. Concept of fiduciary duties is comparable to the Russian concept of good faith, though some considerable differences exist. According to Kinvig in the Anglo-American law “directors have no liability for so-called deepening insolvency—which occurs when a company continues in business, dissipating its assets, after insolvency has occurred”. This contrasts with Russian norms in accordance to which managers are liable for all debts after the occurrence of insolvency. However, in the Russian Federation the concept of good faith is rarely analyzed within the framework of SR. It is usually considered as a form of due behavior of controlling bodies. Scholars and lawmakers do not try to concretize this concept which is in contrast with foreign practice. 
Some of the abovementioned points of view have been already implemented in Russian legislation. In July 2017 alterations were made in the bankruptcy law. These amendments have not expanded the grounds for SR but changed the procedure of bringing to it. Thus, numerous researches were made. However, they seem to be vague, uncertain and limited. Most of the authors tend to operate in a round about way, rewriting provisions of law or already existing theories. Nevertheless, some investigations have significant value. For instance, works by Zhukova, in which she has analyzed the responsibility for violation of the obligation to apply for insolvency.  Special emphasis should also be placed on the Slonevskaya’s works. She investigated the responsibility of managers for previous tax and administrative offences. All in all, existing grounds for SR are rather similar to foreign grounds that are contained for example in the UK Insolvency act 1996. The main difference is that in the UK court may expand the grounds which is not possible in our legal system.
Furthermore, the consequences for controlling bodies are also different in Russian and UK legislation. According to the UK law responsibility for directors occurs in the amount of losses, while in Russian law it occurs in the amount of all financial obligations of the company. Russian researchers criticize the Russian approach. However Russian approach is also applied in foreign proceedings “if any de jure or de facto directors, intentionally or acting with gross negligence, cause or worsen the company’s insolvency situation”.
Most of the scientists maintain that recent alterations have not solved the existing practical problems. Firstly, there is no classification of controlling bodies as it is in foreign legislation. Secondly, researchers suppose that it necessary to expand the concept of good faith and implement the theory of fiduciary duties. Thirdly, norms have a lot of gaps, due to which controlling bodies can avoid responsibility.  
Methods 
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study of SR. There are various approaches to investigate SR. To my mind it will help the analysis if several techniques are applied to the research. Firstly, I aim to examine in some detail the formal logic method. This approach combines functional and formal explanations of the norms concerning SR. Secondly, it will be necessary to use historical method to investigate the institute of SR within a perspective of its development. Thirdly, I would like to develop method of comparative law, that relies on foreign and Russian researches. This method will allow to get decisions on problems of bringing founders and beneficiaries to responsibility and offer a practical way to implement international norms to the Russian legislation. Finally, I will apply the method of analysis to understand the practical implementation of the norms concerning SR. This kind of research will be conducted on the basis of court practice. 
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The results anticipated are intended to confirm the graduate development of the institute of SR. Moreover, the analyses of the legislation and practice will show the existing problems in bringing controlling bodies to the SR. It also might be expected that examination of possibilities of applying doctrine of piercing the corporate veil will help to suggest legal developments that can fill the existing gaps in the sphere of SR.
The confirmation of my results will be based on the data obtained from court practice. Sample cases will provide deeper understanding of the nature of the SR and help to explain essential changes. To obtain more specific information on the doctrine of piercing the corporate veil and its relevancy it is possible to focus not only on Russian court practice but also on the practice of foreign courts.
Conclusion
In conclusion I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. 
It appears from what have been investigated that serious attention should be paid to the development of the institute of SR. Such norms should be developed extremely accurately to exclude the possibility of avoiding the responsibility.
Nowadays Russian insolvency legislation has a lot gaps, vague statements and uncertain rules. Norms concerning range of controlling bodies are not enough developed. Closed list of grounds for SR and absence of norms that would allow to pierce the corporate veil lead to the fact that it is almost impossible to define the real beneficiary of the company and bring him to responsibility.
From the court practice analysis, it is evident that judges formally define reasons of insolvency and guilty of controlling bodies in this process. They do not try to make an economic analysis.
To solve this problem, it is necessary to alter the legislation, specifically expand the definition of controlling bodies and clarify grounds for bringing to SR. The doctrine of piercing the corporate veil should be implemented into Russian legislation. However, it should not be replicated from the Anglo-Saxon model. This will not work in our reality because of differences in sense of justice. That is why the further investigations can be maid to develop procedures for applying the doctrine of piercing the corporate veil into Russian legal system.
