Introduction
Background 
Today, scientists lawyers and practices led to a heated debate about the practicability of equating the concepts of commercial concession ( in Russia) and concept of franchising (abroad). There are some theories that share the emphasis on dissimilar development of economic relationship in different country. So they suggest that commercial concession contract was response on economic situation in our country. Others believe that franchising is a prototype created abroad franchise. Commercial concession contract is a new, still nascent Institute to the Russian law, which was legally regulated only with the adoption of part two of the Civil Code. Since the contract is new for the Russian legal science, it raises many questions regarding its nature, structure and the legal relationships that are governed by this agreement. The presence of litigation relating to the franchise agreement once again confirms the difficulty in using. The study of the legal nature of a contract of commercial concession is important because the contract combines the whole complex of obligations relations with relatively weak legislative regulation.
Problem Statement.
The purpose of my work to observe of the legal nature of a commercial concession contract and related franchise agreement, to analyze the opportunity to exert foreign experience. There is no question of going into further details but  rather on taking a broad view about participation and implementation some way of adjustment franchising relationship in Russian legal system. It needs to be no concern of implementation idea if we take into account different economic conditions and diverse legal systems. The main goal consist of evaluating the possibility to coin the special strategies for improving  legal regulation of commercial concession contract by the already well-known abroad, franchising agreement.
Accordingly, the objectives were developed following missions
-to explore essential terms, parties rights and obligations in franchising contract:
-to study the legal regulation of the agreement of commercial concession in Russia
- investigate  and how franchise agreement relates to the contract of the commercial concession
Professional Significance
Due to our very limited knowledge about this type of business and its regulation could be highly prosperous to cognize in foreign experience connected with  the procedure of creation the contract and contract compliance. The huge amount of lawsuits demonstrate that this field should be modernized and faced with amendments.
Delimitations of the study 
In this paper we will discusses issues concerning the definition of contracts , their nature and legal regulation. Perform analysis of possibility of implementation of the norms of the Russian legislation.
Definitions of key terms
Franchising is a long-term relationship, in which the parties in oral or written form define the terms of the franchise offer or the agreement, the representation condition, franchisor and franchisee rights and obligations. The franchisee receives the right to operate business exploit  the franchisor s  trademark ; the franchisor is obliged to provide assistance if a franchisee necessitates  it ; the franchisee is obliged to pay the agreed payments to the franchisor or his affiliate faces. Federal Trade Commission URL Franchise – a special agreement (license) which characterize right and obligations of franchisor and franchisee in using trademarks, commercial secret, and etc, moreover this paper establish constant payment and rules of controlling business by franchisor. 
Franchise agreement – its legal written ( like a rule ) contract between the franchisor and franchisee including essential terms of the contract, right and obligation of the parties. Franchisee – person, one part of the contract which receive the right from franchisor to use the franchisor’s trademark with the aim to do business. 
Franchisor – it can be individuals or legal entity ( company) that sell franchise and give to franchisee right to do business under their trade name. 
Franchising – particular types of business activity described by giving opportunity to somebody doing the business with your trademark with obligation to pay fees already discussed in contract.  
Literature Review
Before starting to work and describe commercial concession contract we should try to understand the nature of these types of contract and operation the business. First of all,  could be interesting pay attention on the problem of understanding the fundamentals of franchise contract. In the official site of International Franchise Association analyze the definition of the concept of franchising,  types of this contract, problems in regulation, essential terms and etc.  International Franchise association explain franchising like a special methods for operating business and it expanding with the help of licensing relationship. This concept system is considered in franchising in the broad sense. Not as a separate contract in a system of business contracts, but as a way of doing business. Aaron Kelly understand franchising like a marketing technique where «maker of a product or service grants to others the exclusive right to market their product or service.» Even a lot of Russian authors prefer to distinguish the definition “franchising “ and commercial concession. When we are reading about franchising in Russia its right to understand it like special types of business activity. 
IFA deals with two different types of franchising relationship. First of all, it connect with providing by franchisor not just trade name, product and services, but even the system and secret of operating business. Franchising became very famous in a large range of business activity :  Business Services, Education, Lodging, Retail Food, Retail Products and Services, Senior Care and Medical Services.
The development of franchising relations in the Russian Federation was rather complicated. This was especially evident in the cooperation with other countries and the opening of national market to foreign investors. The factors positively influencing the development of franchising relations were, for example, corruption, very instability political situation, different level of salaries, compare with salaries abroad.
The legal regulation of this type of business is done by compiling franchising agreement. Whether the franchise agreement and the commercial concession contract are identical, the question is still not entirely resolved by law science. 
Numerous attempts have been made of resolve the conflict  between the concepts of a franchise agreement and a commercial concession contract. Are they equal and  what they have in common and what is different. 
Many authors, for example, M. I. Braginsky and V. V. Vitryansky  still suggest that the concept of franchising and commercial concession contract properly be considered duplicate. S. A. Pine and E. N. Vasiliev believe that in Chapter 54 of the civil code describes the provisions for well known abroad contract franchising.
The new concept reflects potentially important implication in the understanding of this issue. A.Ambarian   reduce specificity distinguishe feature of the Anglo-American model of franchising , such as the regulation of pre-contractual relations. In the Russian Federation Civil Code reglamentary only the relations between the parties  have already concluded the contract of the commercial concession. The Anglo-American legal system considers it necessary, the protection of the weaker party to the contract (franchisee), therefore, establishes a special deadline( no later than 10 days prior to the purchase of a franchise) for the provision and disclosure by the franchisor the essential information about the transmitted business,  structure, products, services, etc. The principle of obligatory provision of all information at the stage of pre-contractual relations were introduced in the US in 1970 in California. The Federal Trade Commission also accepted these terms and conditions nine years later. Any violation franchised relations, such as fraud and breach of contract may be reason for a lawsuit based on common Law principles. It is exceedingly necessary to emphasize that defining of pre-contractual regulation of relations between the parties create an trustable  atmosphere. According to the agreement of commercial concession parties are more concerned about the conclusion of the contract and  not care so much about building a personal relationship between the franchisor and the franchisee.
Manzoor G.K attempted to give a firm basis to the research into the problem area. First of all, he approved the idea about close relationship between franchisor and franchisee. He underline that the parties of the contract become to be the family and effective results could be achieved if parties operate business together.( Manzoor G.K,2008)
The question has been analyzed and discussed by IFA. Association made their own research addressed the question of franchisees relationship. The results obtained by the entrance of the poll confirmed the theory about franchising as a way of doing business: 
90 % of people revel doing their business
88 % of people relish that part of this business 
85 % feel doubtless satisfied to be affiliation 
83 % people reverence their franchisor
80 % people trust their franchisor completely in operation business 
78 % people can counsel their franchise business to other people
73 % for sure could start it again, because they are not regret at all.
Thus, the Association concluded that the business will work well only if there is a mutual understanding between parties and willingness to work in good faith, forcing not so much by law as much by internal desire to achieve common effect. The IFA accentuate  the franchisor provides assistance in methods and ways of doing business, while the commercial concession agreement in Russia provide for franchisee  only technical and advisory assistance. 
The summary of literature suggests appeared in the Russian Federation the agreement of commercial concession can be  called with some reservations  a prototype franchise agreement. Firstly, from a legal point of view these agreements cannot be absolutely identical. The occasion of this could be different economic preconditions of creation contracts in sundry countries.. The differences are laid not only in the legal aspects of signing these treaties , but also in the regulation of pre-contractual relations, which is especially important in the Anglo-American model of franchising. Secondly, the contract of commercial concession is very similar to the franchise agreement, but still in the Russian Federation there is no such agreement, there is only this method of doing business developed in Europe and has found  place in the Russian practice. Regulation of such business activities is engaged in the contract of the commercial concession, fully reflecting the economic characteristics of our country.
Methodology 
In this section of the project proposal we will observe the methods, which are going to be applied in the present study. I aim to have under observation various approaches to treating definition of franchise agreement and commercial concession contract, their essential terms and their nature. In my research I plan to perform regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation and ,as much as its  possible, of the other countries. There are a great variety of courts decisions, legal acts. I will try to capitalize on this advantage, consider and analyze the practice of application of the agreement of franchising and commercial concession contract. Thus, to achieve the goal we will use the method of analysis comparison. Especially, by comparison we will benefit from examining the nature and legal regulation of the agreement of franchising in Russia and abroad. The reason why I intend to use those methods is to correlate with the most significant question of the research – possibly to use overseas experience in Russia. It will serve the purpose of the present inquiry if components of franchising agreement can be adopted for Russian legal system. The analytical method offer a practical way to implement the idea of using foreign norms in Russian law in case of solving existing problems and conflicts. The historical method we need to refer to the history of this way of doing business and pay attention on it modification. This method can help to investigate the way of formation and development of franchising.
Results Anticipated
The final part of this proposal will report on the result which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The result anticipated are intended provide support to the hypothesis about unequal nature of franchising agreement and commercial concession contract. In the end of me research I plan to reach a full picture of the nature of a commercial concession contract and franchising, their significant terms, and also other features of their legal regulation. With the help of obtained information will be possible permit a reliable assessment the eventuality of implementation of foreign norms in the Russian legal system.
Conclusion
In the final analysis  I can state that advance our understanding of legal regulation franchising agreement could be useful not in science but even in practice. I believe that approach employed seems to have many unexpected practical benefit, for example  to provide in the contract of the commercial concession regulation of the pre-contractual relationship. 

