Introduction
Background. Civil rights and duties arise, change and terminate generally as results of acts called transactions. However, transaction can be result of negative consequence for others, third parties, for instance, if there are no coincidence in parties` real intention and willingness to conclude the contract. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of contracts` invalidity signify the imperfection of this institute. Despite of this fact no one has made a careful inquiry into sham nature of transactions. Professor Bezhetsky`s view has much impact on development of these kinds of transactions. Due to his researches we can correctly understand and apply some dispositions of the law. At present, this issue has come to occupy a central place in grounds of contracts` invalidity.
Problem Statement. Courts uphold only a few of great many suits announced legal action to void sham contracts. It is the consequence of absence a uniform interpretation the terms «fictitious», «colorable» and «sham» transactions. The present investigation can provide sufficient explanation for these expressions through analysis Common and Civil law systems. The overall goal of proposal is to explore the judicial nature of fictitious and colorable transactions. To complete this purpose a group of accessorial tasks should be fulfilled:
1. To provide insight into historical development of sham transactions;
2. To emphasize peculiarities of fictitious and colorable transactions;
3. To compare Russian conception of these terms with ones in legislations of other countries.
Delimitations of the Study. There are various grounds of transactions invalidity: illegal contracts, contracts made by legally incapable persons and etc. However, in this project will be reviewed only those transactions, called in legislative of UK sham. The concerned realm of these kind of contracts will be limited with such countries, as Russian, the UK, and the USA.
Professional Significance.  It is necessary to specify common understanding for the present ground of transaction` invalidity through comparison the judicial nature of fictitious and colorable transactions in different legislations. The analysis of application the abovementioned transactions in various legal systems can provide greater depth of knowledge in the institute of contracts` invalidity.
Definitions of Key Terms. We shall include to the term «sham transaction» both fictitious and colorable transactions. According to Barlin (2012), «sham transaction is once which is intended to have no legal effect, if there is a common intention of the parties that the transaction should be a cloak or disguise for another transaction, or no transaction at all». 
Literature Review
The foundation of the investigation is laid on analysis of laws, judicial practice and science literature, which includes monographs and collection of articles. It is difficult to overestimate civil law scholars` contribution in giving a firm basis to the research into the crucial issues for transactions` invalidity. There are wide range of shortcomings in legal regulation for invalidity of fictitious and colorable transactions. The following review will be developed the legal nature of invalidity abovementioned transactions in the whole system of invalidity. 
First of all, we begin the research with the historical review of the subject. We cannot leave without an attention the treatise of Simpson and Stewart who investigate the history of appearing of sham contracts. The nascence of invalid transactions has represented in this scientific work, called «Sham transactions». The authors argue, that since the end of seventeenth century till the middle of nineteenth century the term «sham» was not a term of art but used to show some cases for evasion of law: for instance, «a sham sale, without competition, contrived with a view to get the estate himself at an under-value». During outlined historical time scale terms «sham» and «colourable» in Common law closely correlated with the doctrine of fraus legis came from Civil law, which has the meaning abuse of law, using avoidance schemes. 
The statement made by Diplock in Snook v London and West Riding Investments Ltd form the basis of sham transactions` conception in Common law. According to Diplock, parties concluding sham transactions, give to third parties only the appearance of creating between them legal rights and obligations different from the actual legal rights and obligations which the parties are really going to create. It is worth to notice that in the meantime we have the same meaning of sham transaction in both Civil and Common law systems. In the article 170 of Civil Code of Russian Federation there are definitions of colourable and fictitious transactions, which emphasize on discrepancy of real will and expression of will. Furthermore, Bezhetsky in his monograph conclude that in classification of invalidity sham transactions should be relegated to transactions with defect of will  Also, in the UK for admission a contract to be a sham it is important to bring to light what the real intention of the parties to the deal. The genuine aim of that contract must not to create the legal rights and obligations, but only give the colour of creating ones.
The significant work that represents sham doctrine issues and basic ideas in the USA was created by Boni-Saenz. The importance of this academic paper cannot be put under the doubts. The article concludes the explanation of sham transaction, investigation of sham avoidance doctrine and remedies of that kind of deals. The following approaches are used in our proposal as the basic ones that provide strong support for comparing sham transactions in two legal systems.
The analysis of the subject of present paper revealed that there are no dividing sham transactions into colourable and fictitious in Common law legislatives. It is depending on definite case whether the contract concluded for dissimulation the real contract or just in technical sense. The Russian Civil Code has no definition of sham transaction. One of the possible ways to unify regulations of national private law is to include the term «sham transaction» to the Civil Code of Russian Federation, which will involve both abovementioned terms. 
However, in the Common law concomitantly with sham transaction doctrine we can point out to pretence doctrine, which corresponds with fictitious transaction in Russian legislative. Bright was one of the handful researchers who investigated this doctrine in comparison with sham transactions: she brought into sharp focus the common features and differences of these kind of transactions. Moreover, the author analyzed controversions in judicial practice in the field of tenancy and the company let, and gave some advices for the courts in revealing the legal nature of the agreement: «first of all, the courts must establish a valid consensus ad idem, if any».
But in the Russian Federation fictitious and colourable transactions are not often applicable in the sphere of tenancy. Most typically they are practiced on a wide scale in the field of bankruptcy, withdrawal of assets from companies, evasion from levy of execution. For instance, execution debtor can conclude the fictitious sale contract with his relative in order to evade the levy of execution. And this contract will be performed just protocolary but not in concreto. In European countries we can observe connected with sham elements cases of rare occurrence in Russia. Specifically, in the UK there are fair amount of sham transactions in the field of employment relations. Middlemiss` article reviewed various cases where a substitution clause in a labor agreement between employer and employee is a sham. Through the agency of this analysis the author gives explanations when a substitution clause can be qualified as bogus act. He believed that proof of a sham «requires a finding that, at the time of the contract, both parties intended it to misrepresent their true contractual relationship».
As it represented, fictitious and colourable transactions are made for conceal real intentions of the parties in order to deceive third person. On the matter considerable views of notable scholars gathered in the article of The Michigan Law Review Association. On the basis of consideration the American professors` opinions we can emphasize one more common feature of understanding sham transactions with Russian one: the intention of fictitious and colorable contracts, as a general rule, focused on deceiving indefinite range of third persons.
Quite a few insights into the process of voidance to null contracts suggested within the framework of transactions` invalidity. In civil law we can classify invalid transactions to void and voidable, what engender disputes in scientific community. And the popular question ensuing from that division is what kind of transactions sham ones. But instead of attempting to discover that issue as Bezhetsky have attempted we firstly shall scrutinize differences between void and voidable contracts.
Most researchers believe that there is no necessity to divide invalid contracts in that way, because it only causes misunderstandings in qualification of sham transactions. According to Schaefer, the distinction between void and voidable has only theoretical meaning, but no practical implementation in the majority of judicial cases. Courts using abovementioned terms only struggle with ambiguity. The same opinion has Gutnikov, who argue that the only essential difference between void and voidable transaction is that the first one has formal constitution and the second one has material constitution. It means that invalidity of void transaction will be not depend on fact of entrenchment on somebody`s rights or interests. Many of those who share this view assume that anyway the transaction must be invalidate only through a trial.
Methods
There are various methods for investigating the invalidity of fictitious and colorable transactions. In the research we will focus attention on the key features of null contracts using mostly systematic and empiric approaches. These methods offer a practical way to implement the consequences of invalidity transactions. The field study will limit the investigation of the bases of invalidity of fictitious and colorable transactions to examine them in the whole system of invalidity separately from other grounds.
Such general scientific method as the systematic one has a particular importance because any system is integral, structured plurality of elements, which gives to it new qualities inappropriate to other elements.
It cannot but mentioned the significance of comparative approach. Due to this one we shall achieve purpose in hand. It is impossible to investigate the legal nature of colourable and fictitious transactions without comparison with other grounds of contracts` invalidity. Moreover, this approach is necessary in comparative analysis of sham transactions in different legal systems, which provides an opportunity to unify the national legislation. For the purpose of determining all probable shortcomings and omissions in Russian Civil Code, we are realizing parallel scanning of American and Britain legal acts. 
The methodology of the investigation is aimed at in-depth study of the subject of the research by using legislative database, results of scientific works and case materials of Russia and foreign countries.
Results Anticipated
The results anticipated are intended to suggest that under study ground of transaction` invalidity have necessity in legislative development. In our opinion, some correctives to the article 170 of Civil Code of Russian Federation will provide better understanding of the fictitious and colorable contracts` nature. The validity of carefully collected data including legal precedents is high enough to confirm the necessity of the abovementioned suggestions. Also, illustrations of fictitious and colorable contracts in judicial practice suffice to show drawbacks in legal regulation.
It should be noticed that the obtained results represent acknowledged scientific approaches to sham transactions, their legal nature, after-effects of invalidation. 
Achieved outcomes, grounded on completed legislation comparison display a wide variety existent problems and omissions that complicate development of transaction` invalidity institute. These findings can play a crucial role for the further analysis on sham contracts.
Conclusion
It is worth to mention that issues connected with study of present institute are as relevant as ever and hold a specific place among scholars works. In this paper the legal and regulatory framework, judicial practice and scientific literature of the present topic were scrutinized by the author. The achieved results in the research work are focused on the legal nature of fictitious and colourable transactions. The following terms are defined: sham transactions include fictitious and colourable transactions. In contrast to other grounds of invalidity sham transactions have flaw in the will. It is believed, that ways of improving the legislation will probably have an influence on following civil law studies and play a significant role in application of fictitious and colourable transactions in Russian Federation.
