Introduction
Background. According to the Constitution of the Russian Federation, “The Russian Federation – Russia is a … law-bound State…”, one of the features of which is the legal protection of freedoms and human rights. Proceeding from this, citizens should be endowed with legal instruments to protect their rights, including those that have already violated. That is why Article 151 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation provides for such an institution of compensation for harm as a compensation for moral damage. However, the maximum and minimum amount of compensation for moral damage is not fixed by the legislator, and there is also no direct method for assessing the amount of this compensation. This issue is currently an active area of research.
Problem Statement. The overall goal of this project is a comprehensive study of the institution of compensation for moral damage, as well as the development of criteria, coefficients that allow to determine the amount of compensation for moral damage in practice.
To achieve this goal, the following tasks were set:
to analyze the notion of moral damage;
to establish the grounds for the emergence of the right of compensation for moral damage;
to consider criteria and procedure for determining the amount of compensation for moral damage;
to develop a formula for identifying a certain amount of compensation for moral harm on the basis of analysis of judicial practice and existing scientific solutions and use them in specialized sites or mobile applications.
Delimitations of the Study. For the following reasons as will be explained next the present study will be severely limited to applicability to Russian realities. It is bound with the fact that each legal system has its own features. For this reason, the present investigation will largely be applicable to the Russian Federation and its law.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project a number of specific tasks to achieve will be consist in the analysis of the notion of moral damage, in the identification of criteria and circumstances, which must be taken into account in assessing the amount of compensation for moral damage, as well as in considering the methods that should be used to determine the fair amount of compensation.
The issue raised studied is said to be great interest from the viewpoint of various scholars investigating civil law and people who have encountered this problem in practice. At a more general level this problem is essentially relevant for the formation of the law-bound state (the Rule of Law) in the Russian Federation.
Definitions of Key Terms. Moral Damage – physical or mental suffering. 
Literature Review
In the present literature review we will examine both the theoretical and empirical studies in the field of moral damage. First of all, it is important to note that in foreign law there is no notion like “moral damage”. There are different notions like “psychological injury”, “psychiatric injury”, “nervous shock” and “ordinary shock”. For example, the Civil Code of Greece does not contain term “moral damage”, the Greek term “psychiki odini” is literally translated as psychological pain. According to Pavlakis, psychiki odini is a “…physical or mental pain and suffering caused to the victim due to the loss of his physical or mental integrity, temporary or permanent impairment or invalidity, permanent or long term aesthetic damage…”. This definition is correlated with the concept of mental harm, proposed by Табунщиков in his monograph instead of the term “moral damage”.
Some scholars also consider the concept of intangible injury. According to Bayefsky, intangible injury relate to psychological harm on the following grounds: “…First, psychological harm might be viewed as a type of intangible injury—or intangible harm, if “harm” is used to refer to the effects of an intangible injury. Second, psychological harm might be viewed as a potential effect of intangible injury…”. As we see, the concept of intangible injury is broader than the concept of psychological harm.
Another close in meaning to the concept of moral damage and the concept of intangible injury is the term non-material damage. According to Dumberry, non-material damage “…is generally understood to encompass loss of loved ones, pain and suffering as well as the affront to sensibilities associated with an intrusion on the person, home or private life…”. It is important to distinguish between the concepts that we have already quoted, and the notion of a moral injury. It is due to the fact that the concept of moral injury has only an indirect relation to moral damage. In the United States, according to Maguen and Litz, moral injury is “…an act of serious transgression that leads to serious inner conflict because the experience is at odds with core ethical and moral beliefs…”. This term is often applied to veterans of war. The analogy of moral injury with moral damage does not appear to stand up to closer examination.
To give a broader theoretical basis to the research it is important to analyze the concept of nervous shock. According to Ahmad, Jamil and Dasgupta, the nervous shock is a “…circulatory failure marked by a sudden fall of blood pressure and resulting in pallor, sweating, fast (but weak) pulse, and sometimes completes collapse…”. As we see, the concept of nervous shock is not equal to the concept of moral harm or psychological injury. Nervous shock is a consequence of moral harm.
Based on the ideas of French specialist and the theory of Borja Soriana, Vargas proposed to divide the moral damages into three categories: “…those which affect the social part of the moral patrimony: these are those which injure an individual in his or her honor, reputation or esteem…; those which injure the affective part of the moral patrimony: these hurt an individual in his or her sentiments or affections, such as the pain suffered by the loss of a dear person…; those which, rather than impinging upon the social or affective part of the moral patrimony, cause a non- pecuniary injury to the victim without diminishing the person's ability to work…”. This theory might be right, however, the potential application of that theory has not yet been carefully investigated.
Delpuerto found that moral damage is a “physical suffering, mental anguish, fright, serious anxiety, besmirched reputation, wounded feelings, moral shock, social humiliation, and similar injury” in the Republic of the Philippines legislation. As we see, the concept of moral harm in Russian legislation, presented in Article 151 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation (physical or moral suffering), is less revealed than in the legislation of the Philippines.
The actual history of the institute of moral damage in Russia starts with a project of the Russian Civil Code of 1905. This project included relevant investigations results of Russian and German researchers. But after revolutionary events of 1917 over a considerable period the approach to the question of moral damage had undergone a root and branch transformation. Табунщиков found that “…the official (State) theory rested on basic ideas that the identity of a Soviet citizen was not subject to monetary valuation…”, so there was no place for compensation of moral damage. The institute of moral damage appeared in the Russian legislation after the end of the Soviet period. For example, according to Das and Mathur, in the United Kingdom “…the first cases regarding psychiatric claims were as early as 1888, when the case of Victorian railways commissioner v. Coultas arose…”.
Returning to the Russian law, the legislator’s approach to the problem of estimating the amount of compensation for moral damage seems to be polemical for the reasons that we will discuss further.
Firstly, this approach cannot be judged as valid, because it does not contain the distinct criteria of estimating the amount of compensation for moral damage. 
Secondly, it can be theoretically challenged.
One of the most possible ways to improve that kind of estimating is to reconceptualize the approach of the legislator as a system. A better option is to develop the new criteria of estimating the amount of compensation for moral damage.
Based on the works of Эрделевский, foreign theorists and the analysis of judicial practice, Табунщиков have developed a formula for determining the degree of physical and moral suffering, using the following criteria: life expectancy at birth; age of the victim, in which he suffered moral harm; proportionality factor; the minimum wage. The difference between life expectancy at birth and the age of the victim, in which he suffered moral harm, is the duration of the suffering. We cannot fully agree with the author's opinion, since the duration of suffering is individual for each person in this or that incident. Individuals may not attach much importance to the event and will quickly forget about it, this trauma can never affect them in the future, besides, the qualified help of a psychologist can also help in this situation. Other people may suffer moral harm for the rest of their lives. Табунщиков, based on the work of Лидерман, comes to the conclusion that in cases of impact on the human psyche is a strong psychogenic factors it loses its inherent regenerative properties and the individual finally will never, ever recover from inflicted damage.
The author also proposed a formula for determining the amount of the compensation for moral damage, including in it, as a variable, the result of the above formula, which calculates the degree of physical and moral suffering. In addition, as a proposal to improve the norms of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, as we have said earlier, it was suggested to replace the concept of moral damage with psychological injury.
Погосова together with co-authors have identified the following existing approaches to the calculation of moral damage: "day-time" - is based on the average monthly income of the accused; "postal" - in proportion to the punishment imposed (one minimum monthly wage is equal to one month of imprisonment); "presumed" - based on the basic level of compensation. In addition, the authors carried out an analysis of Russian practice and the correlation of the obtained data with the results calculated by the formulas of Эрделевский and Толстиков.
The authors have revealed the imperfection of the investigated formulas for calculating the amount of the compensation for moral damage. As a solution to the existing problem, it was suggested to amend the specified formulas by adding a correction factor to them, which would reflect the material situation of the convicted person. From the point of view of the authors, this correction will allow observing the balance of interests of the convict and the victim.  
Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out study. There is an indefinite multiplicity of ways to treat the moral damage which urges scholars to work out a unified empirical framework. It will serve the purposes of the present inquiry if all the components of the compensation for moral damage system are placed into one of the following categories located in positions in the hierarchy comprising the system. The research design foregrounds concern about ways to estimate the moral damage. The approach helps to combine functional and formal explanation.
We see it necessary to legislatively fix a clearer amount of the compensation for moral damage by using various kinds of coefficients and calculation formulas, for example, to establish a minimum and maximum amount of the compensation for moral damage, depending on the nature of the encroachment. So, in case of causing moral damage as a result of insult, the law should set the upper and lower limit of determining the amount of compensation for moral harm, and the courts, in turn, will determine the amount of compensation for moral harm in the given framework, using the criteria already given. Of course, this framework will be different in cases of causing harm to health and so on. The minimum and maximum amount of the compensation for moral damage should be established taking into account the already existing judicial practice.
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. As started at the outset, the study reported here will examine in detail the problems encountered by the moral damage. Our arguments will be sought by analyzing corpus of data. To reliably assess the hypothesis, we will place the issue in another perspective and shift attention to arbitrage practice. It is important to use an actual court practice, because it is rapidly changing.  Based on the existing theories like Табунщиков’s theory we will originally propose a formula and criteria for estimating the moral harm. It is important to say that we are planning to find an easy way to estimate the moral damage for ordinary people, not just for judges or scholars.
Conclusion
It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the criteria of estimating of the moral damage. The baseline results of the present research will permit the following conclusion: it is necessary to supplement the theory of Табунщиков using judicial practice and concepts of other researchers.
To conclude we can state that the project will be an attempt to advance our understanding of moral damage and how to estimate them.
