Introduction
The first part of the research proposal covers the research relevance, states the problem, describes some limitations and determines the professional significance of the study. 
Background. Bankruptcy is a legal way designed by the Government for debtors to get rid of monetary liabilities, when they have no opportunity to pay, and to have a chance for “a fresh start”. Personal bankruptcy procedure in  is very similar to the  model of individual bankruptcy, as far as this model was inherited by the Russian legislators. But one cannot deny the particularities of the Russian mentality and legal reality. Thereby, the Federal Law “On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)” in  has its own problems in application practice relatively to persons.
An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of bankruptcy signify interest in the insolvency procedure of individuals, its conditions and order. It becomes more and more popular, despite the novelty of the concept for the Russian legislative system. First of all, the growing demand is conditioned by a difficult financial situation in the country, which became the result of the economic crisis.
Problem Statement. The main purpose of the project is to extend the understanding of the complex system of assets sale procedure of individuals during bankruptcy. Moreover, the study will pay attention to eliciting the problems that exist in the practice of applying rules for challenging of the debtor's transactions and making amendments to the current legislation on bankruptcy.
Based on the above mentioned, an increasing amount of publications in the sphere of bankruptcy signify the growing interest to the problems of the role of a financial manager, the duration and expensiveness of the process, criteria of good faith of the debtor.
To solve this problem and answer the question the tasks can be formulated as follows:
- to study the concept and core features of assets sales procedure of individuals during the insolvency process;
- to characterize the stages of the individual’s bankruptcy process;
- to analyze the legislative projects of amendments to the law on bankruptcy;
- to examine the project provisions of the simplified bankruptcy procedure and the necessity of the financial manager expulsion from the case.
Delimitations of the Study. First of all, the study findings will be mostly restricted by the categories of persons who are involved in the procedure of bankruptcy. According to the theme, the central figure of a bankruptcy case is an individual who has the monetary liability in amount of more than 500,000 rubles. Another limitation will be connected with the type of bankruptcy procedure - the property sale procedure. In addition, due to the changing norms of the law on bankruptcy it is expedient to implement the  practices with participation of individuals during the period from 2015 to 2017 into the present research. 
Professional Significance. The present research will be useful for people in a difficult financial situation without money to pay their debts. The research will represent a sequence of the stages of the bankruptcy procedure. The review of the given stages will be done from the points of view of the debtor, the court and the financial manager, which will result in a better understanding of the advantages, disadvantages, and risks of the whole procedure.
Speaking of the novelty of the research, it is significant to mention that the prepared amendments regarding the simplified proceedings should be subjected to studying as to their applicability to the Russian legal system, as well as to the matter of defence of the parties’ interests. In connection with that, the present paper will analyze the content of the proposed amendments to the Federal Law and express an opinion about their possible efficiency.
Literature Review
For the purposes of the current paper it is necessary to understand what “bankruptcy” means and what are the consequences of the consumer bankruptcy procedure. Based on Weil position, “bankruptcy – is the process where a person legally declares himself or his business unable to pay outstanding debts”.  In accordance with the Russian law on bankruptcy this procedure is available for people having indebtedness in the amount of more than 500,000 rubles over the period of 3 months. The subjects of consumer bankruptcy are individuals, their spouses, and entrepreneurs. 
The Russian model of consumer bankruptcy appeared in 2015 and it was based on the American personal bankruptcy model. In the USA, the bankruptcy institution is regulated by Title 11 of the United State Code, which consists of 9 Chapters. Speaking about the varieties of the procedure, Culhane and White found that “there are two basic types of bankruptcy proceedings: liquidations and reorganizations”. Besides, the procedure of bankruptcy in the USA is controlled by the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, including the aspects of filing of application, paying a fee, meeting of creditors, filing of an appeal, etc. The bankruptcy system in Russia has a somewhat similar structure. However, it is adjusted by the Federal Law “On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)” and the Arbitration procedure code of the Russian Federation, and it fixes 3 types of the procedures in the context of consumer bankruptcy: property sale, debt restructuring, settlement agreement. The first two Russian procedures of bankruptcy have a similar nature with the American ones. According to Jones, Shalhoub, “liquidation was appointed to gather and oversee the sale of assets”, it is applied when a person has no money to pay debt at all.  Reorganization is similar to debt restructuring and “designed for an individual debtor who has a regular source of income”. As we can see, property sale procedure is a process of assets sales by the public sales during the bankruptcy procedure, which is applied to individuals, to satisfy the interests of the creditors. This type of procedure is applicable, “if either the restructuring plan was rejected, or the court cancelled the debt restructuring plan”.
As is known, in America, the district courts have exclusive original jurisdiction, so they can use the national legislation of the state while the process of justice. However, in case of bankruptcy there is a strict injunction to apply the Federal Law - The United State Code. 
In Russia, in order to unify judicial practice, the individual’s bankruptcy cases are considered by the arbitration court at the place of the debtor’s residence. During the consumer bankruptcy procedure the courts apply the federal laws of Russia. 
The bankruptcy procedures for individuals are very popular in the USA, but Russian people in debt do not always have an opportunity to be involved into insolvency proceedings. The most significant issues for the analysis of the bankruptcy procedure of individuals concern 2 points: time and costs. These problems have an obvious appeal among scholars, because the potential bankrupts in the biggest part of cases have no any sources to get income to fund the procedure. It is connected with the obligatory participation of a financial manager in bankruptcy cases. This figure controls the process, carries out sale of the debtor's property, disputes the transactions and draws up the necessary documents. The key functions of the financial manager are to satisfy the creditor’s interests and deliver an opinion on the debtor's good faith to the court. On the other hand, the debtor must pay money to the financial manager for his work. Nowadays, this sum is 25,000 rubles for the whole procedure. For comparison, according to Chapter 7. Petition package. the cost for the procedure is from 275 to 1717 dollars. At the same time, the state partly incurs the costs paying for the services of the involved person. Also individuals use the attorney’s services only at the stage of consultation before filing for bankruptcy and during the process to represent debtor in bankruptcy court. At the same time, the state partly incurs the costs paid for the services of the involved person. 
The average duration of the bankruptcy procedure is about from 6 months to 1 – 1.5 year. The same length of the bankruptcy case duration is in the USA. That is why it is unprofitable for the financial manager to be involved in a consumer bankruptcy case. In addition, in case of any violations the financial manager can be subject to administrative penalty in the amount of 25,000 – 50,000 rubles, or disqualification for a period of 6 months to 3 years.
This issue has come to occupy a central place in the theorists’ minds, who have proposed a fast and cheap procedure of simplified bankruptcy for individuals by way of property sale. This model is an example of the working scheme that exists nowadays in the USA and is provided by the Bankruptcy Code. In the biggest part of cases potential bankrupts can apply for free help to get a consultation, to prepare a claim or to take part in a court session.  
According to legislative thought, in the recent future debtors will receive a chance to participate in the bankruptcy procedure without a financial manager. It will be available for individuals to have a short consultation with a specialist or this authorization will be given to advocates.
While the debate over perspective simplified procedure seems to gain popularity it has not had much impact on the bankruptcy procedure and particularly on the bankruptcy property sale procedure, because it is still only the project. The developing trend arouses a lot of interest about an opportunity to use a bankruptcy mechanism to get rid of debts, thus, theorists hold quite various  doctrines about stimulating measures to encourage financial managers. Actually, the procedure of selling of assets consists of several points, such as: combining the register of creditors, making the property list. After these, the amount of assets, which were included into the list. All of the creditors should  affirm their agreement for selling of the debtor’s property. All the money that have been gotten from the realization of the debtor’s property will be paid to the creditors. The remaining part of the outstanding debt, as a rule, should be cancelled by the court. In this case, the criterion of the debtor’s good faith plays a key role. To sum up, the property sale procedure can be completed if all the above-mentioned grounds are observed.
Methods
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the property sale procedure in the bankruptcy cases and give special emphasis to the analysis of data and its comparison by the theme.
It goes without saying that the methods of analysis and comparison can be applied for the present project in the context of studying of both foreign and native legislation. Therefore, I intend to observe the legislation of some foreign countries, which represent a real working process of the bankruptcy institute. For example, the USA legislation on bankruptcy was developed into the form of a separate code. For this reason, there is an insufficient number of norms that should be studied under the issue of identification of a positive experience and the possibility of its implementation in the legislation of the Russian Federation. This strategy helps to investigate the limitations of the domestic law.
Moreover, by observing the real arbitrage cases on bankruptcy of individuals another access to research can be defined. There are various approaches to analyzing the judicial practice in terms of procedural features and order applied to the subjects of the relationship. It will serve the purposes of the present if the data can be analyzed using several strategies from the different points. The strategy serves for classifying the existing facts and offers a unified practical way to implement norms of the law on bankruptcy in the context of activity of bankruptcy participants during the process.
Results Anticipated
The following part of the proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned in the previous part of the paper in terms of the property sale procedure in case of insolvency (bankruptcy) of individuals. 
The results anticipated are intended to point out to the existence of positive foreign norms and acts on the sale of property of individuals that establish a pattern of qualitative parameters of the procedure to improve the Russian legislation in this sphere.
Besides, due to the analysis of the judicial practice on bankruptcy of individuals it is better to understand an approximate vector of justice. The facts obtained will be assessed by using a large dataset of bankruptcy acts of the court provide a test of the theory about the different quality of individual’s bankruptcy procedure, their property and the order of selling, conditions for getting rid of obligations.
Finally, I assume that the present research might have a practical application for those people who will be prepared for diving into the process of consumer bankruptcy, because it will reveal the conditions, the order of the procedure and the consequences for the subject of the case, when the procedure will be completed.
Conclusion
In the last part of the proposal, I would like to briefly highlight the main ideas of the research. As it was mentioned in the first part, the aim of the study is to advance the knowledge about the property sale procedure of individuals in case of insolvency. Finally, based on the results anticipated, the research will suggest a complex view on the procedure of sales of individuals’ assets, it will comprise a review of advantages and disadvantages of the Russian law on bankruptcy and a project of the simplified bankruptcy procedure for costumers. 
Undoubtedly, it is necessary to observe the foreign legislation because it may bring new perspective solutions of the problem, but this kind of experience should be carefully adopted to the national legislation system and pre-tested before implementation. Hopefully, the present paper systemizes the data on the personal bankruptcy combining the legal information of the different law families in order to solve collisions and to develop a proposal to improve problems that now exist in the procedure of the personal property sale in case of bankruptcy. 
