Introduction
Background. The problem of criminal policy in counteraction to extremism is considered to be one of the most controversial issues in criminal law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: some view extremism as a commitment to radical views and ideologies and therefore assume that legal regulation has to be focused on those aspects, while others believe extremism to be a socially dangerous phenomenon that is expressed in violent acts and consider that only acts of violence should be under regulation. Both of these approaches have the socially dangerous aspect in common, but their main difference is that while the first approach considers extremism as actions and views, the second approach only views extremism as only an act of violence. 
Another aspect of extremism, which makes the concept of criminal policy in counteraction to extremist stand out among other legal matters, is that it heavily depends on the social and political environment both in a particular state and in the world as a whole. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern legal studies have special appreciation for analytical approaches to the problem of extremism as they reflect another dimension of counteraction to extremism that is the question of whether it is more efficient to fight the act or the cause. 
Problem statement. The discussion concerns the effectiveness of modern criminal policy in this area, including the existing measures to prevent and combat extremism, as well as the question of the boundaries of the concept of extremist crimes – at the moment they remain quite blurred. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to define extremism and to identify its every form and type as well as to find out new ways of counteraction to it. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following: 
1. To explore the approaches that reveal the concept of criminal policy;
2. To explore the concept of criminal policy and identify the forms, methods and directions of criminal policy, as well as its features;
3. To analyze the theoretical approaches to the issue of the concept of extremism from the point of view of criminal law and criminology, to explore the concept of extremist crimes and an extremist motive in the 1996 Criminal Code of the Russian Federation;
4. To analyze the regulatory framework of international and national anti-extremist criminal policy;
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the nature of extremism and its forms and types which allow to identify it and find a measure against it and to predict a measure to prevent it. This determines some difficulties in interpretation of various approaches to the concept of extremism and counteraction to it. More than that one of the delimitation of the study, connected with the previous one, is the essential difference of foreign and Russian legal approaches. And finally, the last delimitation is the restricted access to the data on extremist crimes and criminal policy in the area of counteraction to it due to the fact that not all foreign works are accessed on-line.
Professional Significance. The problem under consideration can be a matter of paramount interest for various scholars, students of law faculties, and lawyers who investigate the concept of extremism. Since the issue studied is of utmost legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in criminal law studies, and law enforcement activities including jurists, police officers, detectives, and investigators. 
Literature Review
A great number of foreign and Russian researchers have devoted their works to problems discussed in this research. Nowadays, many researches in the field of law are investigation the questions of criminal policy, extremist crimes, legal regulation of such crimes and ways of improving measures of counteraction to extremism.
Before speaking about criminal policy in relation to extremism it is necessary to define the concept of criminal policy as well as identify its formation and subject. The issue is discussed in the study by Alfred Zhalinsky. The author defines the general goal of criminal policy which is to ensure the maximum possible control of crime by the state and society. Moreover, Zhalinsky defines the subjects of criminal policy – separate social groups with their own interests, society as a whole, representing the inconsistent agreement of various social groups regarding the optimal criminal policy. 
Priscilla Marope’s study focuses on social aspect of extremism rather than on legal and discusses correlation between extremism and education. The author intents that the causes of extremism – intolerance, hatred and prejudice – can be easily eliminated by approaching education on less instrumental terms. To Marope extremism is not only a violent act, but also a set of beliefs a person has. Thus, it is necessary to approach counteraction to extremism not only as a set of legal measures but also as a general concept that includes changing the curriculum and challenging social norms to make room for inclusion and equality. 
M. Innes, C. Roberts and T. Lowe discuss that based on British law enforcement agencies’ experience the most effective measure of counteraction to extremism is disruption. This turn to one particular measure has happened for two reasons: first of all, extremists’ behavior is not opportunistic but rather strongly ideological and therefore is quite easy to predict. Second of all, disruption requires significantly less resources and casualties since there has been no actual act of extremism yet. However, researchers state that disruption is a highly flawed measure of counteraction to extremism since often it is rather difficult to tell the difference between simply having extremist views and preparing an extremist act.
J. Donovan and R.T. Coupe investigate the nature of extremism and measure of its preventions based on animal rights activism crimes. The subject matter is quite controversial in itself – when does a line between fighting for justice and committing an extremist crime lie. However, researchers pay closer attention to the question of effective measures of counteraction to extremism. Based on this specific type of extremist crimes the authors assume that the most effective way of combating extremism is to remove the leaders of most influential organizations. The reason for this is a highly organized nature of extremist crimes – they are anything but sporadic.  
Russian researchers D. Skorikov and N. Shuvalov investigate the problem of the forensic characteristics of extremist crimes, extremists and victims, precisely, on such interconnected elements as the identity of the offender and the identity of the victim. The authors conclude that forensic characteristics of extremist crimes include information about the identity of the subjects of crimes, their relationship, circumstances of the commission and concealment of the crime and practical recommendations based on such information.
V. Andriyanov refers to the problem of the underdevelopment of the legal framework for counteraction to extremism. The researches analyses multiple approaches to defining extremism and gives the following definition: the activities of public, political and religious associations or other organizations, the media and individuals in planning, organizing, preparing, financing, or otherwise facilitating its implementation, including other means aimed at stimulating social , racial, national or religious hatred, humiliation of national dignity, forcibly changing the foundations of the constitutional system, as well as public calls for the implementation of these activities.
T. Aristarkhova’s study deals with the problem of the systematic identification of typical data on victims of extremist crimes, as well as the correlation between the motives for committing such acts and selecting the victims. The researcher assumes that each social group has a certain degree of victimization. Thus, a victim of an extremist crime is an individual whose rights and legitimate interests were substantially violated as a result of criminal acts motivated by political, ideological, racial, national or religious hatred.
V. Ivshin and A. Kondakov discuss the problem of compiling the criminological characteristics of an extremist identity and dividing such  characteristics into types. The researchers assume that extremist offenders are divided into several main groups: 1) young gangs members and riots participants; 2) the actual perpetrators of extremist crimes; 3) individuals who provide organizational and sponsorship assistance to extremist communities and groups using extremist criminals for their own political and financial benefit.
S. Voskanyan addresses the problem of insufficient disclosure of the definition and classification of extremism in the legislation of the Russian Federation. First of all, the researcher argues that in any area where different views clash, there are supporters of conflicting and extreme views and actions, but not all of this should be classified as extremism. Second of all, the author gives a classification of extremist crimes: theoretical and practical; legitimate and illegitimate; committed by a male and by a female; public and domestic, etc.
A. Marinicheva addresses the issues of the prevention of extremism in cases that do not form criminal composition, primarily on the part of individuals that are included in the subject of prosecutorial supervision. The researcher argues that prosecution authorities are the undeniable leaders when it comes to the quantity of initiated administrative proceedings regarding bringing those responsible for extremist activities to administrative responsibility. The author concludes that the prosecutor’s activities for the prevention of extremism provides for the implementation of legal opportunities within the framework of various areas of prosecutorial activity.
Yu. Klimenko considers problems arising in connection with the subjective composition of Art. 282.1 of the Russian Criminal Code, covers the issue of the legal nature of extremist crimes, and examines the points of view on the form of complicity within which an extremist community exists. The researcher argues that there several approaches to defining extremist community: as an organized crime group, as an independent form of complicity, and finally and approach that implies that extremist community should not be considered in terms of forms of complicity.
E. Galkina focuses on the problem of political extremism, and in particular, on the adoption of measures to build a safe society and counter global threats. The author claims that Russian lawmakers should pay special attention to resolving the problems of the North Caucasus through the creation of an expert group. Moreover, the researcher implies that global trends of the world development until 2030 will include the development of political extremism and terrorism. This means that it is impossible to completely combat extremist crimes, but there is a way to counteract to them by strengthening civil society.
Thus, over the last couple of decades the scholars’ interest in the concept of extremism and counteraction to it has been increasing steadily. The problems raised in the researches also tend to become more and more diverse, from the problem of defining extremis to analysis of  particular types of extremism such as activist extremism. None of the present-day works on extremism and counteraction to it can be defined as a complex study encompassing different levels of medieval reality, from political to intellectual.
Methods
For examination of modern criminal policy in counteraction to extremism, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating extremism and measures of counteraction to extremism, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of criminal law. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation of extremism and to identify the legal mechanisms of legal counteraction. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of Russian and international legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of extremist crimes in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of law enforcement agencies, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of criminal policy in counteraction to extremism.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of criminal police in counteraction to extremism and the data on efficiency of current measures of combating extremist crimes show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by Yu. Melnikov, M. Cherkasova and A. Seregin reveals that there are several approaches to defining extremism. It means that researchers have different views on the subject under question. Some regard it as a set of extreme views based on a violent ideology  but others imply that extremist crimes can only be committed through violent acts. I infer that the problem of defining extremism should be investigated with consideration that only an act can legally be considered a crime, but not a thought or a set of beliefs. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice and law enforcement. The data is presented by a number of registered extremist crimes. It shows that throughout the years the number of registered extremism crimes has decreased significantly. The data proves that improving legal regulation of extremism help to take more efficient measures to combat extremist crimes. 
All this determines the solution of the problem of criminal policy in counteraction to extremism. Identifying and solving the problems of current legal regulation of extremist crimes plays a fundamental role in maintaining a stable social environment. I hope my research on criminal policy in counteraction to extremism helps to solve some of the most relevant problems.






















Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the problems that arise in relation to criminal policy in counteraction to extremism are extremely complex and are still unsolved. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of definition of extremist crimes because this aspect strongly influences the legal regulation.
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to criminal law and criminology.  In the context of extremism, another interesting aspect emerges, that of the correlation of extremism with social and political environment.  The main contribution of this research is placing the study of extremist crimes through the criminology prism into the field of criminal law studies. 
The findings are essential for law theory and legal practice.  The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for criminal law and criminology learners to differentiate types of extremist acts, to use proper terminology and to contribute to improving legal regulation in the sphere of criminal law. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, legal experts, and law enforcement officials. 
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of  regulating extremist crimes. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to defining extremism by providing various tools for analysis. 
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of criminal law for further study of extremism and its legal regulation as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
