INTRODUCTION
Background. The relevance of studying the legal regulation of absorption, carried out by acquiring more than 30 percent of the shares of the company, is associated with its importance in the development of the economic system. The modern economy is quite unstable, expanding competition between corporations. As a result, business companies are forced to look for strategies that allow them to develop in the most efficient manner. 
The Russian Federation sets the task of reforming legislation so that it meets the realities of the business community. Indeed, legislation governing the acquisition of shares of more than 30 percent have already undergone many changes. Despite this, the procedure for acquiring a large block of shares has not been regulated by the legislator with a balance of interests of the parties: the majority shareholder and minority shareholders. Although the Federal Law “On Joint-Stock Companies” provides methods that guarantee protection of the rights of minority shareholders in the event of a takeover, in practice these methods do not work. 
Based on the analysis of the legislation, it can be concluded that the legislator considers the principle of protecting the rights of minority shareholders as the main (dominant) principle. However, the majority shareholders, in connection with this, put forward extremely stringent requirements, which in certain situations are unjustified.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: based on the analysis of the legislation, it can be concluded that the legislator considers the principle of protecting the rights of minority shareholders as the main (dominant) principle. However, the majority shareholders, in connection with this, put forward extremely stringent requirements, which in certain situations are unjustified. This all determines the purpose of the research.
The purpose is to find out new ways of protecting the rights of minority shareholders during the acquiring a block of shares of more than 30 percent. At the same time, keeping a balance of interests of majority shareholders, without imposing burdensome obligations on them.
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
To disclose the procedure for the acquisition of shares in excess of the threshold values and the consequences of not observing it;
To determine the main ways to protect the rights of minority shareholders during the takeover of the company and their validity in terms of respecting the rights of majority shareholders;
Compare the requirements for majority shareholders in the Russian legislation and the legislation of foreign countries.
To propose protection methods that allow balancing the interests of the parties during the purchasing a large block of shares by the prevailing shareholder.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on problems during the process of acquiring stocks above threshold values, namely over 30, 50, 75 and 90 percent, 
Professional Significance. The problem under consideration may be of interest to various scientists, law students and lawyers who are exploring the mechanism of absorption and protection of shareholder rights in companies. All these issues are also of great practical importance for the minority shareholders themselves to defend their rights.
LITERATURE REVIEW
In the case of the acquisition of more than 30 percent of the shares in the joint stock company, the prevailing shareholder must send a mandatory offer to  minority shareholders.  Two types of liability are  provided for contravention of the rules for the acquisition of 30 percent of the voting shares of the company. These are administrative liability and civil liability.  The issue is discussed in the study by Glushezkiy A. “ Liability for failure to send a public offer to acquire the joint-stock company’s securities”.
In accordance with administrative law, administrative proceedings will be instituted against the violator. The Federal Law “On Joint-Stock Companies” provides for a restriction on the rights of a shareholder who has acquired more than 30, 50, 70 percent of shares, and allow him to vote with only 30, 50, and 70 percent of shares, respectively, before submitting a public offer to redeem shares.
The author identifies two types of consequences in case of non-delivery of a mandatory offer: a temporary change in the scope of rights or a temporary restriction on the scope of rights. 
The most important issues for the development of the practice of applying the mandatory offer institution and the most controversial aspects of the share buyback under the rules of Art. 75 and chapters XI.1 of the Federal Law “On Joint-Stock Companies” covered in the draft Resolution of the Plenum of the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation “On Amendments to the Resolution of the Plenum of the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation. Problems of application of the articles of law are discussed in the study by Stepanov D.I., Boyko T.S.” Repurchase of shares from shareholders at their request and a mandatory offer in judicial practice”. 
The Judicial Collegium for Economic Disputes of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation ruled out the recovery of losses incurred due to a significant reduction in the value of shares owned by shareholder, if the claim of  their compensation  is presented to the issuer of the shares when measures of financial recovery have been  taken against the company. The issue is discussed in the study by  D. Stepanov. Losses of shareholder cannot be recovered from the joint stock company. 
The author, on the basis of judicial practice, concludes that in such situations courts should use the norms of special legislation that has priority over general civil standards, in particular the rules of joint-stock legislation and legislation on insolvency (bankruptcy).
The influence of the mechanisms for protecting the rights of minority shareholders ex-ante and ex-post during the takeover, as well as the characteristics of the mandatory and partial offer are studied in the article  Budenov, Yerkin, “Protection of Minority Shareholders: Mandatory Bid or Partial Bid Rule”
According to the article, the analysis shows that the mandatory offer protects shareholders, in particular minority shareholders, since it provides guarantees for the payment of a fair price for shares and the right of a minority shareholder to refuse to participate d company until majority control is established in it. In addition, the requirement to send a binding offer reduces the risks of “inefficient takeovers” due to the high cost of holding it.
For a complete analysis of ways to protect the rights of shareholders, it is necessary to study the basic elements of right protection of the minority shareholders in Germany, France and the UK. Considering the takeover directive, 2 instruments for protectionon of the rights of minority shareholders are distinguished: fair price and mandatory offer. Research results are discussed in the study D. Szentkuti “Minority shareholder protection rules in Germany, France and in the United Kingdom”. The author says that the approach used in it puts actual control over the company in the first place, which is much more important than protecting the rights of minority shareholders. The Directive does not use a certain percentage of shares after which the prevailing shareholder is obliged to make a mandatory offer. In contrast to the laws of Great Britain, in which, as well as in the laws of the Russian Federation, the threshold is ownership of 30 percent of the shares. In France, the threshold is 33 percent plus 1/3 percent.
Minority shareholders in their corporation may be concerned with having voice, access to information, some control, return and ability to exit. In addition, minority investors are often concerned that those in control will act opportunistically and take advantage of their control for personal benefit. It is important to understand how corporate law default rules deal with these issues and the extent to which the minority shareholders are protected while allowing those in control to exercise their power. The issue is discussed in the study by  Arthur R. Pinto “Protection of Close Corporation Minority Shareholders in the United States”.
To identify approaches used in other jurisdictions in order to counter the violation of the interests of the rights of minority shareholders, the procedure for acquiring a large stake in US law should be studied in more detail. This procedure, as well as the problems arising during it, is studied in the article  by B. Jeffery Bell “ The Acquisition of control of a United States public company” .
The acquisition of a controlling interest in any company involves numerous legal and business issues. This memorandum addresses the principal legal issues involved in acquiring control of U.S. corporations whose shares are publicly traded on a U.S. securities exchange or are otherwise subject to the public reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
50% of all US public corporations are registered in the state Delaware. Delaware is the undisputed leader as the basis for setting up public corporations by American entrepreneurs. Therefore, an analysis of the provisions of Delaware's corporate law is very important. Transactions in the purchase of a large block of shares are regulated by the General Corporation Law. This law establishes requirements for the transaction procedure for the purchase of shares in excess of the threshold value, as well as liability for violation of the procedure. One of the ways to protect the rights of a minority shareholder is to take into account not only the value of the shares themselves, but also the size of the possible income from them during the forced repurchase of shares.



























METHODS
For examination of guarantees of the right to acquire large shares, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to access the current state of the Russian legislation regulation minority shareholder rights during the takeover of a company, as a well as to predict its further development within the framework of changes in legislation in recent years. The synthesis and comparative methods will be used to identify differences in foreign laws regarding mechanism of protection of the rights of majority and minority shareholders. The methods of analysis and interpretation of legal norms are used in the work to study the procedure of mandatory proposals in the legislation of the Russian Federation and foreign countries. Finally, the functional method will help to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the process of purchase of shares by the prevailing shareholders and to identify the legal mechanism abusive the majority shareholder.
















RESULTS ANTISIPATED
A preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the issue of acquiring shares of more than 30 percent in joint-stock companies shows that at the moment the legislation of the Russian Federation governing the procedure for these transactions, as well as law enforcement practice, are not perfect and require amendments. This means that legislation requires amendment, improvement of the procedure for acquiring shares.
 I hope that my research in the field of judicial practice, doctrinal approaches, as well as foreign legislation will develop improved ways to protect the rights of minority shareholders and procedures for the transfer of shares when acquiring a large stake.


















CONCLUSION
Based on the above analysis of scientific research, as well as the legislative framework, we can conclude that at the moment there are many questions regarding the regulation of the mandatory offer, in particular, relations to provide protection to the shareholders of the target company in case of non-direction by the acquirer of a controlling stake in a mandatory offer; regarding classification of stock purchase and sale transactions made on the basis of a public offer received by the company that does not comply with the requirements of the law; in addition, it raises doubts about the need to establish in the Law on Joint-Stock Companies a regime for the subsequent control of the authorized body over the legality of a mandatory offer. 
It seems that the improvement of the Russian model of public offer regulation needs to be carried out taking into account the goal of such improvement, which is to bring the law into a state in which equal protection of rights will be provided to all participants in the mandatory offer, both minority and majority shareholders of the target company, as well as persons who have not yet become shareholders, but have made a mandatory offer. It is possible to achieve this objective, including through the use of positive experience in regulating the mandatory offer of foreign jurisdictions.
Despite the fact that judicial practice is currently trying to develop a concept for the application of legislation governing public offer, there are still a lot of unresolved issues in this area. 
To summarize, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop an area of balance of interests of majority and minority shareholders in acquiring a large stake in order to further study this issue, since the data obtained contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
