Introduction
Background.  Currently, lawsuits on the reinstatement of rights to ownership of illegally deprived shares constitute a significant part among corporate disputes. This is due to the fact that in economic societies the realization of stockholder's rights depends on the share of ownership. Therefore, there are many incentives for illegal deprivation of corporate control by participants. As a result, shares concentrate in the ownership of one or more shareholders. At the same time, in Russia there are no efficacious measures for protection that determines the relevance of the study about legal protection of corporate rights in case of loss of corporate control. 
Problem Statement. The purpose of the research is a comprehensive study of the protection of the shareholders` rights in cases of loss of corporate control, and identification of legal regulation limitations of this sphere. There are a lot of specific objectives, which should be considered to achieve this purpose: 
1) to define the concept of «corporate control»;
2) to identify the mechanisms for taking over control of a corporation;
3) to reveal the nature of these mechanisms; 
4) to outline ways of protection in case of  loss of corporate control;
5) to stand out the most effectual methods of protection;
Delimitations of the Study. The research is focused on defining of the corporate control as a legal category. In this work we will study a realm of the corporate rights, which are the elements of control, as well as legal ways of takeover of control. Consequently, research is conducted within the framework of corporate relations' study, arising in the process of protection. 
Moreover, in paper considerable attention is paid to preventive and judicial measures of protection and restitution of the corporate rights. However the research is limited and does not allow achieving constant results because of controversial judicial practice and variability of legal norms, which rapidly change. Economic aspects of the corporate control and management are analyzed marginally.
Professional Significance. Capture of the corporate control is phenomenon, which extends more and more among corporations all over the world. Thereby there is a problem of vulnerability of shareholders. In Russia this problem arise owing to abuse of dominating shareholders, who have a range of private benefits. The work includes analysis of the doctrine, law acts and practice. All of them deal with protection of the rights of company's members. On the basis of this study new concept of «corporate control» can be created. In this paper deterrent measures of loss of control are explored for constructing the most effective protection way. Provisions and conclusions of this research can form a theoretical basis for improvement of the legal rules related to this problem.
Literature Review
Nowadays, the concept of «corporate control» is studied by the great amount of distinguished scientists and becomes a fairly popular area of researching. There are a lot of different approaches to the detection of the corporate control's nature, so it is impossible to find unified one, which completely explains this term. The reason for this is that different legal systems include alternative meaning of the corporate control's base.
For the first time the concept of «corporate control» has been determined by Professor Henry Manne (1965) as a specific asset, which has some price and provides the right to management in corporation. In support of this definition Daniel O'Brien and  Steven Salop decide that corporate control is not associated with the right on monetary compensation, but with the right to make the significant decisions. Like most authors, David Cowan Bayne argues that corporate control is not a person, it is a whole office with administrative and financial power over the decisions, which are taken by the shareholders. 
He proposed the interesting approach, according to which the control is an essential attribute of an enterprise. It includes two types of remuneration: monetary and nonmonetary. The first reward provides pecuniary recompense to the office-holder for the proper implementation of their rights and responsibilities. In other words, a person receives financial compensation for controlling corporation in addition to management rights. However, in a practice there are situations in which the remuneration is paid unjustly and unreasonably, for example, when a person ceases to be at the administrative positions, but still continues to receive compensation from his former office. Thus, such situations should be monitored both by the courts and the corporation. The second type of compensation is a spiritual value, particularly prestige as a great incentive for the successful implementation of the control functions. Undoubtedly the feeling of accomplishment and desire to express organizational capability can be very satisfying compensation for governance.  Bayne focuses on the fact that such asset, as a corporate control, is equally and legally available to all shareholders. Apart from this it should be noted that the opinions of these authors are appropriate to «common law» system. But referring to «continental law» system, the concept of «control» connected with the supervision of the activities of the officials.
Analyzing the Russian legislation, we can outline two types of corporate rights, through which corporate control is implemented. Firstly, the status rights - shareholder rights. Secondly, the investment rights, which are called as «private benefits from control» by Michael Barclay and Clifford Holderness.  The realization of these rights depends on the proportion of the share. These authors highlight a variety of advantages for blockholders, such as:
1) Expected dividends, which are paid in the proportion to the percentage of shares; 
2) Higher salaries and other bonuses, which are paid in exchange for the transfer of corporate control;
3) The ability to obtain the right to vote proportionally to holding of shares, what means that the larger ownership interest - the more influence of shareholder on the final decision. 
The results obtained by Doctor Barclay and Professor Holderness demonstrate that private benefits are used by blockholders for satisfaction of personal interests, such as, ownership concentration, internal control by blokholder, maximization of the securities' value, implementation of corporate mergers and acquisitions.
Conversely in other study Clifford Holderness concludes, that private benefits can promote the interests of minority shareholders and can also be negative for dominating shareholder. For instance, if blockholder incur personal costs from monitoring or from lawsuits brought by shareholders, who do not agree with the decision and the action of blockholder. However, this fact does not cause large losses for controlling shareholder in the most profitable corporation.
A shareholder may take over a corporate right by several ways. Henry Manne focuses on the main mechanisms of taking over a corporate control. The first method is referred to as «Proxy Fights», which means the struggle for a proxy of minority stakeholders, who are entitled to vote at the general meeting. This method allows to shareholder to expand block of stock and to affect on voting results.
The second method is a direct purchases of company's shares, which is more expensive that the first one. Manne gives some examples of direct purchase of shares: 1) outright purchase on the open market; 2) purchase of the shares from large individual owners, that allows to reach an agreement on price; 3) it can be a bid for tenders, that allows to request an offer to sell shares at a price above the market. 
Finally, the most serious way of taking over control is «the merger». The main difference of this mechanism is that corporation, not private investor, acquires the concern and the form of this purchasing of control is exchange of shares, but not cash. This method is complicated because the Russian legislation requires supermajority approval of the merger. In addition, the research demonstrates that merger is the most efficient mechanism of capture of corporate control, because it provides more effective management inside the corporations, increasing of capital and rational allocation of resources. Nevertheless, Daniel O'Brien and Steven Salop stand out such negative feature of merger as the problem of competition between merging firms, which is proved by significant differences in legal status of corporations and their shareholders after the merger.  
There are different ways to protect shareholders` rights in case of taking over control of a corporation. Though A.V. Andreev concludes that in Russia actually there is no effectual mechanism of participant's rights protection in Limited Liability Company and Joint Stock Company. Russian legislation declares such means of protection as the restitution and vindication. However, restitution does not always return the shares in kind, and vindication is not effective in the event of a dispute about the stakes of the economic society. Therefore, recognition of the right and corporate control recovery can be the most efficient methods of protection. In the first case there is not only recognition of the property right to a share, but others corporate rights. The second mechanism is used in case of illegal reduction in the percentage of shares, when wrongful actions are considered invalid.
Overall, choose of the participants' protecting rights way in the case of loss of corporate control depends on the mechanism of control`s capture and understanding by the shareholders its significance and content.  
Methods
This part of research project describes a methodological basis, which includes general scientific and private-scientific methods.   From the first group of methods the analysis is represented the greatest interest. This method allows to examine the whole concept of corporate control in parts. Particularly in our research we investigate the concept of corporate control, its principles, legal and economic content, ways of takeover and restoration of the control. Then on these bases we determine the essence of corporate control as a legal category. Others general scientific methods are collecting data method, deduction and logic which allow to make some conclusions by an establishment of ties between components of corporate control.
Since the data has been obtained, the convenient method that is required to continue the research is a formal-legal method on the basis of which we analyze and compare norms through the Russian legislation which regulate corporate relations. The next step of application of this method is defining the legal frameworks of corporate control as well as lawful mechanisms of protection of shareholders in Russia.  By analyzing the legal precedents of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and Court of Perm region we reveal widely used law violation in this sphere, facts and evidences on which Judge should pay attention to solve cases, and advantages or disadvantages of mechanisms of protection in similar situations. Also we can create legal barriers to impede merger procedures and the direct purchase of shares.
We also use a comparative method to correlate the features of corporate control in Limited Liability Company and Joint-Stock Company which differ by virtue of a regulation by different laws. Furthermore, we compare mechanisms of capture of control and protection in foreign countries and in Russia to provide fair resolution of disputes.
Since one of the objectives of the study is to determine the most appropriate mechanism of protection, the final method that we will use is statistics on the basis of which we find and generalize the reasons causing the loss of corporate control and ways of their prevention.       
Results Anticipated
We are expected that in the end of our study the primary goal and specific objectives that we outline will be achieved. We will be able to argue that corporate control is not only specific asset, which has a price, but also it is a valuable prerogative, which includes right to monetary and nonmonetary remuneration. In addition, we await that all major mechanisms of control's takeover, their principles, motives and possibilities for it will be determined and examined in detail. Consequently hypothesis about inconsistency and danger of the merger will be proven.
On the one hand the study consists of wide analysis of doctrine, but on the other hand the work is limited by rules of civil and corporate law. Hence, measures for protection of shareholders' rights will be defined and considered through the Civil Code. In spite of this we plan to find the most efficacious mechanism to protect shareholders from illegal actions, such us takeover their corporate stocks. Especially, it will be actual to suggest the «restitution of corporate control» as the main protective method.
Conclusion
In summary, there is no unified definition of corporate control, its content depends on the situations. For protection of shareholders, corporate control should be considered as a possibility to participate in formation of will of legal entity by realization of corporate right. There is a set of methods for control`s takeover which indirectly fixed in Russian legislation. For instance, the merger and direct purchase of shares may have a goal to capture control of corporation and to avoid it we need to investigate lawfulness of procedures. Nowadays, there is a tendency to perfect the law rules regulating the protection of corporate control. For example, the role of the notary increases in case of acceptance the important corporate actions. Moreover, there are special methods of protection in case of illegal loss of shares, such as «corporate control recovery". However, these mechanisms are not applied in all situations of takeover of control. Also the procedure of protection requires to fulfill a numerous actions and provide documents that are very burdensome for shareholder. The research describes some major theoretical provisions, which will provide practical effect for activities in studied sphere.



