Introduction
Background. The rapid development of the international commercial turnover in terms of international economic integration and globalization in general, as well as inevitable crises of the modern economy generated the phenomenon of cross-border insolvency, i.e. insolvency of the debtor located in a different system of justice than its assets or creditors. The relevance of the recognition of such bankruptcies in private international law becomes wider as the process of the integration of economies expands, which, in its turn, creates a conflict between national laws and jurisdictions related to the subordination of the various subjects of law enforcement. The issue lies in the field of respecting national sovereignty while complying with the agreements issued by various supranational entities. Thus, a unified law on the recognition of cross-border insolvencieshas not been adopted yet. 
Problem Statement. The main purpose of this work is to analyze the national laws that govern the recognition of cross-border insolvencies, identify common and differing legal provisions, examine law enforcement practices and determine the most effective ways of legislative development in this area. In accordance with the stated purpose, a number of specific tasks are set:
1. to analyze the legal regimes of the recognition of foreign bankruptcies in foreign countries;
2. to analyze the legal regime of the recognition of foreign bankruptcies in Russia and identify the prospects of its development
Professional Significance. The practical importance of the ongoing research is determinedby the prevalence of transnational bankruptcies, as well as various related issues, such as the possibility of foreclosure on the debtor's property located abroad. One of the high profile cases of such a bankruptcy is the insolvency of the Mirax Group LLC, which was a major Russian developer that owned a number ofTurkish hotels, while making payments towards loans, issued by Swiss banks. Theforeign lenders are still holding the famous «Federation» tower, the central erection of the Moscow-City district and one of the biggest projects of Mirax Group, back. Potentially, any company that enters foreign markets can be subject to cross-border insolvency.
Delimitations of the Study. The examined range of issues includes the procedural aspects of cross-border bankruptcies. Currently, each state seeks to protect the interests of its national creditors, which leads to complete elimination of bankrupt enterprises in each of the states and the inability to meet the demands of foreign creditors. Furthermore, the research analyzesthe inefficiency of parallel bankruptcy processes simultaneouslyheld in several countries, which entails a manifold increase in costs to be coveredfrom the limited competitive mass, which was createdto meet the claims of creditors andrecover debtor’s creditworthiness in the first place.
Literature Review
Ian F. Fletcher, Professor of International Commercial Law at University College London conducted a research on analyzing how international banks deal with various issues of cross-border bankruptcies. The case study became the core element of his research. Holding up a bank failure as an example, the author points out the possible non-compliance of international bank assets to its debt obligations, furthermore, a situation may arise when the financial situation of certain branches of the bank leads to a collapse of the whole system, while other regional offices indicate stable profit-making practices, sometimes quadrupling the amount of assets. The author raises the question whether in such cases it is wise to carry out the bankruptcy procedure throughout the directing organization, or it is possible to bankrupt only selected offices. [Fletcher, 1993] In addition, there is a question “whether unified collection and distribution of the bank's assets among all those with claims against it can take place, or whether assets and liabilities will in practice have to be administered on a state-by-state basis”.
Ian F. Fletcher identifies two main approaches of the states that participate in the procedure. The first approach, conventionally referred to by Ian F. Fletcher as “ring-fensing of assets” is based on the lack of standardized international acts, the lack of the shared principles and well-established jurisprudence on cross-border insolvency. According to the author, the downside of such approach is the way the states choose to recognize or not to recognize the decisions of the courts. The absence of a unified legal framework of the state makes it lawful to choose the most favorable decisions on a case by case basis. Ian F. Fletcher points out the diminution of creditors' expectations, as under this approach the lenders account on the applicability of the national, rather than international laws while dealing with the debtor, but can end up being judged in the framework of the different legal system. Moreover, the author points out that the basis of such approach is the famous Latin principle “forum concursus” that is used in most of these cases. Under this principle the state has the right not to recognize foreign judgments concerning the property located on its territory. The key feature of the principle can be summarized by quoting Professor Ian F. Fletcher: «The law of the forum concursus is only applicable proprio vigore to property and persons within the territory of the sovereign state whose jurisdiction is asserted». The disadvantage of this approach is the vulnerability of assets. International assets are derived from the competitive mass, however, the individual lenders if they are the citizens of the same country within the territory of which the property of the debtor lies, the creditors have the right to bring it to foreclosure.
The second approach is based on the «twin principles of unity and universality of insolvency». In accordance with this approach, the judgment of the court comes into force in all of the participating States, regardless of the jurisdiction of the country where the court ruling was issued. However, Ian F. Fletcher believes that the countries are not yet ready for such an implementation of court decisions, taking into account the significant differences of legislation and legal systems.
Taking into account all of the drawbacks of the current situation and the obstacles that stand in the way of overcoming it, the author proposes a mixed approach. So, in case of bankruptcy of The BCCI group, which used to operate in sixty-nine countries through more than 250 offices, a supranational Commission of financial control was appointed. The Commission consisted of the high profile professionals, which made it possible to save both time and effort, to reduce procedural costs and to evenly distribute the assets of the company among interested creditors.
Professor Ian F. Fletcher conducted various studies if the various issues which lie within the framework of cross-border bankruptcies. In another study Professor analyzed the history of attempts to solve the problem of international insolvency. Professor Fletcher points out the efforts of the countries of the North American Free Trade Zone which were aimed at defining the general principles for the implementation of bankruptcy proceedings for all of the three countries who participated in The American Laws Institute's NAFTA Insolvency Project [Fletcher 2006]. However, the principles developed by The American Laws Institute served as solid guidelines for the courts, but ere never mandatory. Furthermore, professor Ian F. Fletcher analyzes the attempts of the European Union to solve the given problem. The development of The European Union Insolvency Convention has started in 1996. The process of its implementation was complicated by the fact that in accordance with the legislation of the European Union, such an act can only be adopted unanimously by all member states, which delayed the process of unification of legislation for decades. Nowadays the Convention has been enacted, however, various member states still has not issued laws which would enable the countries to comply with the Convention. 
The most successful attempt was the work of The United Nations Commission on International Trade Law known as UNCITRAL, founded in 1966, which has developed the model legislation that can be voluntarily implemented by the States as mandatory or advisory within their national systems. The sphere of the regulatory issues of the cross-border insolvency has been repeatedly drawing the attention of both Russian state officials and Russian legal scientists. Thus, Svetlana A. Karelina indicated that in 2011 the Russian Ministry of Economic Development prepared a draft of the federal law “On Cross-Border Insolvency (Bankruptcy)", which was heavily based on the provisions of the Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency UNCITRAL. As the author points out, up to date, the project has not been passed into law. However, the idea of such an adoption of the UNCITRAL Model Law and its implementation in the Russian national framework on the basis of a normative act seems reasonable to Svetlana A. Karelina.
Methods
In order to achieve the objective stated above, various scientific methods have been used. More specifically, the general methods used in the research include systematization, analysis, synthesis, abstraction, generalization, analogy, induction, deduction and modeling. Moreover, the formal legal methods have been used in the research, i.e. legal historical method, legal comparative method, and semantic method.
The theoretical basis of the research relies on the scientific concepts, doctrines and theoretical research papers of domestic and foreign scientists, all of which helped to analyze the borderlines of the phenomenon of recognition of foreign bankruptcies and to formulate its peculiar features into new useful legal provisions.
The main principle that lies within the research is the principle of universality or so-called universality principle, which has been previously used in authentic and modified theories of universalism, supported by Professor Ian F. Fletcher.
Furthermore, the study was based on the theoretical approach stated in the doctrine of obligation, supported by Svetlana A. Karelina, and the latter upgrowth of her concept, which had developed in the field of recognition and enforcement of foreign court decisions. The principle of equality of the creditors of the insolvent debtor and the theory of consolidation of bankruptcy cases have also been heavily relied upon while conducting a research. 
The empirical basis of the research consists of both international and national legal acts regulating the relations of cross-border insolvency. 
Results Anticipated
The practical significance of the anticipated results of the research is determined by the possibility of the achievement of the stated objectives. Thus, when the national laws that govern the recognition of cross-border insolvencies are analyzed, common and differing legal provisions are identified, law enforcement practices are examined and the most effective ways of legislative development in this area are determined, the author of the research anticipates it to be used, first of all, as a basis for further research in the field of cross-border insolvency and related litigation. Secondly, the research can be used in order to improve the domestic legislation within the civil law framework, taking into account the international legal standards for the possible reform of legal regimes regulating the recognition of foreign bankruptcies. Moreover, the research can be used for the purpose of analysis, synthesis and compilation of a uniform legislative act regulating cross-border bankruptcy cases. Furthermore, the author of the paper plans to continue the research within the stated field. 
Conclusion
The final outcome of the research will result, firstly, in the systematization of the laws that govern the recognition of cross-border insolvencies both valid and invalid, secondly, in the assessment of the way in which such different laws were in applied in practice and a, finally, in the definite formulation of the basic directions of legislative changes which are necessary in order to conduct bankruptcy procedures with much lesser expenditures of time, money and human resources.



