Introduction
Background. Another aspect of legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity in the Russian Federation, which makes the concept of the new legal regulation stand out among other legal matters, is that there are problems in the administrative regulation. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern legal studies have special appreciation for this point of view as they reflect another dimension of entrepreneurial activity that is legal and public nature. The problems are in the administrative regulation has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of the problems into the context of entrepreneurial activity, assuming the comprehensive solving.
Problem Statement. The research problem is considered as the fact that in accordance with the Strategy for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises in the Russian Federation until 2030, in the last few years, the dynamics of the development of small and medium enterprises is negative. 
The main purpose of the work is to analyze the problems in the legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity in the Russian Federation, to develop the proposals for improving legislation in the selected field.
The following tasks are defined, based on the mail purpose:
1. To consider the legal basis in the field of entrepreneurial activity;
2. Explore private and public relations in the field of entrepreneurial activity;
3. To analyze the administrative regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
Research Hypothesis. It is hypothesized that, legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity demands for the new legal norms in entrepreneurial law as the law was analyzed.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the nature of problems of entrepreneurial activity, its features, forms of regulation and control which allow to predict a measure to solve the problems.
Main part
Literature Review. The legislator recognizes entrepreneurial activity as a civil legal category, enshrining its concept in Art. 2 of the Civil Code of Russian Federation. Boutillier, S. in research assumes that entrepreneurial activity in Russia is not highly developed. The two main reasons are barriers to entry for small and medium enterprises (taxes, political instability, corruption, inflation and the judiciary) and the lack of restructuring of the domination of large companies with monopolistic behavior. 
In the last few years, the dynamics of the development of small and medium enterprises is negative. It is a significant issue.
Boyde, E. consumes that in spite of the difficulties they face, Russians are particularly interested in setting up and running their own businesses and in learning more about how to do so.
The Smirnov, S.; Cheberko, E. argue that despite the current negative institutional environment, despite the range of negative political factors and warning statistics of decline in the number of enterprises, the gradual development of national entrepreneurship continues. They stated, «Pending the weakening of negative factors in the mid-term period the authors forecast that a prompt development of entrepreneurial ecosystem is highly probable in the nearest few years». The article requires that Entrepreneurship in Russia – it is an activity associated with the risk of freedom’s loss. Tens of thousands of criminal cases of economic direction are annually instituted, thousands of entrepreneurs are arrested. According to experts, a significant part of these criminal cases is custom-made and is a consequence of corruption in law enforcement agencies.
Loshkarev A., Prokudina D. mainly cosider the problem of the inefficiency of the Russian tax system is one of the problems of the legislation leading to excessively high tax rates for entrepreneurship. Idrisov V. agrees with this thesis in his article, which focuses on the thesis of increasing the VAT rate. However, the authors of this article focus on the fact that the taxation system is complex and confusing: paying taxes requires the entrepreneur to have professional knowledge in accounting and taxation or to hire highly paid accounting and tax specialists.
Vyakina I. considers several factors that reduce the confidence of the business sector in the state. These include: uncertainty associated with geopolitical tensions and sanctions; lack of successful long-term cooperation, as well as the volatility of regulatory legal acts, the business environment and the frequent changes of decision-makers in the government.
Akhmetshin A emphasizes the additional features at the doctrinal level: autonomy, independent property liability of an entrepreneur, legalized character, professionalism, etc.
Shane S. argues that striving for the emergence of new and any startups means pursuing an unsuccessful state policy regarding entrepreneurship if the state has the goals of economic growth and employment. He  found that «State support measures in this case should stimulate the creation and promote the development of “high-quality” new firms that have the potential and aspiration for growth».
Methods. For examination of legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity in the Russian Federation, various methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating the specific features of the subjects of entrepreneurial activity, the concept and methods, the specific of the private and public aspects, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of the law theory. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the entrepreneurial activity and to identify the legal mechanisms of entrepreneurial activity in this area. The competitive legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of private and public legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of entrepreneurial activity in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of entrepreneurs, to interpret and clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of entrepreneurial activity.
Results Anticipated. Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of entrepreneurial activity in the Russian Federation and the data on the arbitrage practice shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by the most well-known scientists reveals that the different legal bases are used. It means that researchers have different views on the subject under question. They regard it in a theoretical aspect but the key role plays the arbitrage practice and the relations between the law and entrepreneurial activity. I infer that the problem of legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity in Russian Federation should be considered as changing federal and local law. This gives the perspective of the new relationships between entrepreneurs and the control departments. Achieved outcomes, grounded on the theory practice, gathering the experience of the most well-known lawyers, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the main problem.
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline the results in terms of the legal practice. The data is presented by cases and numbers. It shows that the hypothesis was confirmed. The results support the idea that legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity demands for the new legal norms in entrepreneurial law as the law was analyzed. It suggests that the main problems in  entrepreneurial law are based in analyzed aspects. The data proves that the level of confidence of the entrepreneurs should be increased.
All this determines the solution of the problem of entrepreneurial law plays a fundamental role in legal regulation and contributes greatly to civil law. I hope my research will help to solve and to improve the entrepreneurial law.
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the research will be helpful for summarizing the entrepreneurial problems. It means that there are problems, such us personnel problem, administrative barriers were analyzed. This does not follow from previous researches on increasing problems in this sphere due to the lack of practice analysis. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of civil law because entrepreneurial activity is a big part of civil law. 
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to theoretical ground and other researches. In the context of main purpose of the work, another interesting aspect emerges, the inefficiency of the Russian tax system is one of the problems of the legislation leading to excessively high tax rates for entrepreneurship. The potential for this research lies, first of all, in enriching the methodology, which can be achieved through the use of practice knowledge, theory application and by incorporating complex research methods. As far as administrative  regulation is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analyzing the court practice. 
The findings are essential for the law theory and legal practice. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for students to differentiate the problems, to use proper terminology and to find a right solution for problems in the sphere of entrepreneurship. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing lawyers, legal experts, and law control officials. 
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of entrepreneurial activity in the Russian Federation. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to the analyzed problems by providing various tools for analysis and conclusions. Since the project focuses mainly on the court practice and relevant literature review, it will follow descriptive, and evaluative research designs, built on qualitative methods.
