Introduction
Background. The problem of nature of cybercrime is considered one of the most controversial issues in Russian legislation. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. However, the phenomenon of cybercrime cannot be called fully studied, since in the theory of criminal law and in judicial practice there are many contradictions and shortcomings in many significant aspects. 
Another aspect of the nature of cybercrime, which makes the concept of computer crimes stand out among other legal matters, is that cybercrime gains greater latency every year and methods of committing such types of crimes are rapidly modifying. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern legal studies have special appreciation for several discoveries in this area, for example, the development of a portrait of the subject of this crime. 
The concept of the nature of cybercrime has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researchers seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of the concept of the cybercrime into the context of the criminal law legislation. 
Also, criminal legislation, in particular, the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, does not fully regulate the relations that arise in the Internet space, and it is not ready for the rapid development of modern information technologies, which indicates the need to refine this issue at the legislative level.
Problem Statement. The research is devoted to study of the problem of insufficient knowledge of the specifics of computer crimes and the essence of cybercrime, the need to review certain provisions, regarding the characteristics of crimes in the field of computer information and introduce relevant rules governing newly emerging social relations in this area, as well as the lack of a qualitative distinction between criminal offences, which causes serious difficulties in law enforcement practice,  qualifying acts in the sphere of computer information and administration of an effective punishment. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to study the criminologically significant aspects of cybercrime, necessary to assess the degree of exposure to this phenomenon, as well as to develop measures aimed at improving the efficiency of the criminal law regulation of combating cybercrime.
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
To analyse the concept of cybercrime in Russian and foreign legal systems;
To define the term cybercrime and computer crime within the framework of the research;
To analyse the structure and dynamics of cybercrime in Russia and in foreign countries and conduct a comparative analysis of them;
To consider implications, problems and solutions of counteraction and prevention of cybercrime in the Russian legislation. 
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the nature of cybercrime and its elements which allow to identify it and find measures against it and to predict measures to prevent it. This determines some difficulties in interpretation of various approaches to the concept of cybercrime and delineation of cybercrime from other similar wrong doings in civil and criminal spheres on the basis of corpus delicti. More than that one of the delimitation of the study, connected with the previous one, is the essential difference of foreign and Russian legal systems. Also, one of the delimitation is the restricted access to the data on cybercrime as a criminal wrong doing due to the fact that not all foreign works are accessed on-line. And finally, the last delimitation is insufficient knowledge of the specifics of cybercrime and, as a result, the lack of points of view of legal scholars regarding the most important aspects in the framework of this phenomenon.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first task to deal with is to analyse the concept of cybercrime in Russian and foreign legal systems in order to differentiate commonalities and differences in the approach of Germanic and French law. This will allow to analyze the key factors of cybercrime and its features and develop several criteria for its evaluation. 
Thereby, it seems to be useful to analyse the Criminal Code articles and several Federal Laws on cybercrime and relevant wrongdoing to formulate several measures for effective cybercrime prevention in Russian legislation. 
Since the issue studied is of legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in criminal law studies, including jurists, detectives and prosecutors. The study provides a rich basis for further study of the problems associated with the controversial nature of cybercrime, as well as for the formation of new and  improved rules governing current gaps in criminal law on this issue. 
Literature Review
The legal framework of the study is based primarily on acts of international and Russian law and several scientific works of legal scholars in the field of cybercrime. 
The modern international mechanism for normative regulation of relations in the Internet space is formed by the following regulatory legal acts: by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in Art. 12 which enshrines the right to privacy; The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which provides for the special importance of respecting the privacy of persons whose personal data is stored in electronic records; The Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, the legal norms of which served as the basis for the formation of legislation on personal data in the Russian Federation. The most important step in the development of international legislation in the field of regulation of Internet interactions was the adoption of the Budapest Convention of the Council of Europe on Cybercrime, which solved the problem of interaction between law enforcement agencies of different states if the person who committed the crime and the person against whom the criminal was directed act, are or reside within different states.
The Criminal Code of the Russian Federation №63-FZ is the most important legal act in the field of legal regulation of cybercrime, which provides for a number of crimes in the field of computer information and establishes sanctions for their commission. 
The Federal Law «On Information, Information Technologies and Information Protection» № 149-FZ regulates the protection of personal data on the Internet. 
Maureen Brown considers the problem of the specifics of computer information, its accessibility and openness, and also highlights possible ways to protect information. Also, the author notes the need to create certain international legal acts and agreements on issues of newly emerging crimes that are not covered by existing regulatory legal acts.
Lola F. Tatarinova, Karimzhan N. Shakirov and Danila V. Tatarinov. in their study conduct a detailed study of the essence of cybercrime, and also analyze various types of cybercrime, their features and causes. The purpose of this study, respectively, is to identify the criminological specifics of cybercrime, as well as highlighting the main determinants that affect the level of cybercrime in Russia and the world. 
Michael Kunz and Patrick Wilson (2004) analyze what the current level of understanding is regarding computer crime and computer fraud, as well as what is being done by law enforcement agencies to deal with these offenses. According to the authors, training and resources available to law enforcement must also be improved. It is recommended that comprehensive computer crime investigation and electronic crime scene training be a requirement for all law enforcement agencies. This will allow officers to be prepared to handle issues and complaints regarding computer crime and fraud, will provide all law enforcement to better understand the issues they are facing, and will ensure these investigations are handled in a standardized way. 
Valko D.V. provides an assessment of the level of cyber threats in Russia and the world based on the analysis of materials of large international IT companies and cyber security research groups such as IBM Security, Cisco, McAfee, Symantec, Trustwave, NTT Group, Kaspersky Security Lab and others. Also, the author formulates a generalized assessment of the place of cybercrime in the landscape of global threats and the economic damage from cybercrimes and examines the main sources of cyberthreats, critical problems and technologies. 
Smirnova I.G. in her article carries out a detailed analysis of the essence and specifics of forensic, criminal procedure, criminal law and forensic legal knowledge. The author considers computer crime in a broad and narrow sense. According to the author, computer crime in its "broad sense" in terms of content and volume is more than the concepts of «cybercrime» and «crime in the field of computer information». 
Methods
For examination of the concept of cybercrime, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating cybercrime and its specifics, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of Civil and Criminal law. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on measures against cybercrime and to identify the legal mechanisms of counteraction in this area. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of Russian and foreign legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of cybercrime in order to identify its similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of participants in the field of information technologies, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of cybercrime. 
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of cybercrime and its characteristics and the data on statistics and judicial practice over 2015-2019 in Russian Federation show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by legal scholars reveals that there are different interpretations of the concept of cybercrime which are dependent on the scope in which it is used. It means that researchers have different views on the subject under question. They regard it as criminological category but others consider it as a criminal category. I infer that the problem of the concept of cybercrime should be considered as criminological and criminal at the same time, because it will allow to study the issue in more detail. Achieved outcomes, grounded on different research works and judicial practice, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate law enforcement practice and increase the degree of public danger of cybercrime. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice, law enforcement and international legal experience. The legal practice is presented by Smirnova I.G. It shows that some legal scholars believe that the concept of “computer crime” does not cover all acts committed with the help of global networks and computer technologies, so cybercrime should be signed out as an independent type of crime. Other authors identify the concepts of “computer crime” and “cybercrime”. The results support the idea that computer crime must be considered in a broad and narrow sense. In the narrow sense the definition of computer crime fully coincides with the legally established concept of “crime in the field of computer information”. In a broad sense, computer crime should be defined as “a set of crimes, where the main direct object of a criminal assault are public relations in the field of computer information and information relations”. 
All this determines the solution of the problem of the concept of cybercrime that plays a fundamental role in criminal law and criminology and also in law enforcement practice and contributes greatly to solving of socially significant problems, for example, in the field of fraud in the sphere of Internet communications. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the nature of cybercrime cannot be called fully studied, since in the theory of criminal law and in judicial practice there are lots of contradictions and shortcomings in many significant aspects. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of the specifics of cybercrime and its legal nature, because the rapid development of modern information technologies and the rapid digitalization of society have led to the fact that every year investigating authorities are increasingly faced with active criminal activity in cyberspace, the scale of which is steadily increasing, and therefore, the number of criminal acts on the Internet is significantly increasing from every year, and the level of detection of cybercrimes is rapidly falling. 
In the framework of the study, the concept of cybercrime was developed, and it was also concluded that the term “computer crime”, used in the domestic doctrine to mean illegal activities using information technology, does not fully reflect the specifics of the phenomenon and does not cover all the characteristic features of the nature of this phenomenon. This leads to the fact that the concept of "computer crime" implies a much wider range of acts than is provided for in the literal interpretation of the term. In this regard, it is necessary to consider the possibility of replacing this concept with a broader meaning and meaning - “cybercrime”, and designate the corresponding socio-criminal phenomenon as “cybercrime”. 
Thus, the project can be regarded as an attempt to consideration controversial points of view on various issues in the field of information crime and developed an author's point of view on the specifics of cybercrime and its legal nature, as well as examined problematic issues in the field of legislation on cybercrime at the national and international levels and proposed possible ways to resolve them.
This findings are essential for law theory, legal practice and law enforcement practice. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for criminal law and criminological studies. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing lawyers and counsels, legal experts and law enforcement officials.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of criminal law and criminology for further study of the nature of cybercrime as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic. 









