Introduction
Background. The judicial procedure for resolving civil disputes is the most frequently used at the present stage of the development of society and the Russian legal system. In most cases individuals, whose legal rights and interests are violated, go to court and neglect the possibility of extrajudicial proceedings, because many of them do not even know about the existing methods of extrajudicial resolution of conflicts. In addition, the parties to the proceedings often remain dissatisfied with the quality of the work of the judiciary and the court's decision in the case. Moreover, at the same time the work of courts is hampered, as their workload increases.
In connection with this, much attention has recently been paid to the methods of extrajudicial settlement of legal disputes in Russia. In particular, the program of targeted improvement of the judiciary has been sent to solve the problems mentioned. In the framework of the implementation of this program, in 2011 Federal law «On an alternative procedure for the settlement of disputes involving an intermediary (mediation procedure)» was issued.
This fact arouses a great interest in mediation. Mediation is one of the extrajudicial proceedings methods. The use of mediation to resolve legal disputes can provide an opportunity to solve the problems of the courts and can become a more advantageous way to solve the problem for the conflicting parties Thus, the study of mediation is extremely acute at the present time.
Problem statement. The general purposes of this study establish on the statement, that it is necessary to develop extrajudicial settlement of disputes. Thereby, questions under consideration are development of  mediation and its widespread introduction for use in the practice. Moreover, this qualification graduating paper is aimed to draw attention to methods of extrajudicial resolution of conflicts in general and to mediation in particular. 
In order to achieve the goal of the present research, a number of the following tasks should be fulfilled: 
to consider the history of the legal regulation of mediation in Russia and other countries;
to study the procedure for conducting mediation (stages, participants, conditions of holding);
to analyze the current state and prospects for the development of mediation in Russia;
to identify existing problems, develop ways to address them;
to compare mediation in Russia and foreign countries.
In addition, it is necessary to compare mediation in Russia and abroad throughout the research. 
Delimitations of the Study. Research purposes and objectives justify the range of key issues under consideration, which includes the history of the mediation development in Russia and abroad, the conduct of the mediation procedure and practice of application. All the issues under consideration are for both Russian and abroad mediation.
Professional Significance. Considering about a value of the present study, it is significant to mention that in the framework of the research a number of specific practical problems associated with mediation is believed to will be solved. First of all, history and mechanism of the mediation procedure will be studied.  Moreover, the research design foregrounds concern about ways of the development and implementation of mediation. They will be suggested and these original ideas and solutions can be used in legal practice.
In addition, it is important to take into account that it is a comprehensive research and Russian analogues have not been found yet, this can be considered as a strong point of the research.
Literature Review
What is about the literature on chosen topic, it should be mentioned, that mediation is a new phenomenon for Russian law system. So, there is no comprehensive research on mediation in Russian. There are only articles and reports about certain aspects of mediation. For instance, concept of mediation and  principles of mediation process. 
Due to the fact, that mediation as a legal phenomenon first appeared in foreign countries, it is expediently to study not only Russian information sources, but also foreign research in mentioned field of studies. 
First of all, it is necessary to answer the question about the definition of mediation in law concept.  According to Reuters, mediation is «a procedure in which the parties discuss their disputes with the assistance of a trained impartial third person(s) who assists them in reaching a settlement». This approach to understanding mediation is recognized by the academy and has advocates. 
Secondly, the history of mediation development should be under consideration. There is a huge amount of research on the historical issue of mediation. For instance, «Brief History of Alternative Dispute Resolution in the United States», written by McManus and Silverstein, and «Mediation in China: Threat to the Rule of Law?», written by Pissler. Scholars from all over the world discuss the question about mediation emergence, their research can be useful for comparing with Russian mediation. 
Also, there are studies, which have principles of mediation as a purpose to research. According to Hopt and Steffek, principles of mediation procedure are voluntary, confidentiality, cooperation and equality of the parties, impartiality and independence of the mediator, its neutrality. Professor Adjabeng  and other scholars are advocates of this approach. 
The stages of the mediation procedure became the subject of a study carried out in the article written by Jessica A. Stepp. According to Stepp, «process of mediation includes 6 general stages». The first stage is introductory remarks, the second is the statement of the problem by the parties, the third is the time for finding information by the mediator, the fourth is the joint statement of the problem by the parties, the fifth is the mediator's proposals for solving the problem, and the final sixth stage is reaching agreement. Also, the author determines the problems and gives detailed recommendations for conducting each of the stages, based on his own experience. Advocates of Stepp’s approach acknowledge its decisive consequences for mediation.  
Moreover, Smith identified strong points of the mediation application in law. From the Smith’s point of view, mediation is an effective way to resolve legal disputes, which has a big amount of advantages. The list of mediation’s benefits includes confidentiality, saving time, lack of high psychological tension for the parties, anti-corruption potential and satisfaction of the interests of both parties. 
The issue of mediation problems is a subject for scholars’ debates. Professor Marsh believes that the major problem of mediation procedure is a lack of settlement authority. Marsh found that «In a survey involving over 150 mediators and a substantial number of sessions, almost one quarter of the failures were the result of a necessary party not attending. Those with authority must attend in order for the process to work».  There is one more point of view developed by Williams, who said, that mediator can be a problem, so, a process of mediation can be worthless.  Russian scholars believe that the problems in mediation are expensive and short training of mediators, the lack of a system of guarantees for the independence of mediators, and insufficient explanatory work among the population.
The last point to discuss is mediation agreement. According to Dmitriev and Furtak, the mediation agreement is subject to enforcement only on the basis of the principles of good faith and voluntariness, which, according to the authors, hinder the development of mediation. The question of the legal force of the mediatory agreement is still unresolved. Some scholars believe that the mediation agreement must have the force of an executive document, it will solve the problem of distrust of mediation. But this hypothesis has opponents, who say that giving a mediatory agreement to the executive force will violate the principles of the mediation process. However, the problem of mediation agreement needs to be further analyzed. 
The literature review done gives an opportunity to recapitulate, that there is a huge amount of research on mediation in law. Also, there are questions, which are still discussed by the academy, so there is an opportunity to form one's own point of view. Thus, the existence of interest in mediation and the relevance of the chosen research issues are confirmed. Found monographs, articles and research allow to achieve the goals set in the current study and all of the questions mentioned can be answered. 
In addition, the study of foreign sources will make it possible to study the positive experience of applying mediation in the legal systems of foreign countries. That will give an opportunity to form recommendations and find answers to the questions that exist in the legal practice of applying mediation in Russia. Also the opportunity to suggest ways of developing mediation will arise. 
Moreover, it should be mentioned, that each of the sources is valuable and worthy of consideration, since they have put forward opposing points of view, the analysis of which will help to form their own vision of the situation.
Methods
This part of project proposal explains the methods used in carrying out of the study. Using both general scientific and special methods will serve the purposes of the research. 
Among the general methods used in this study, there are comparative analysis, induction, comparison and deduction. The comparative analysis method and method of comparison will be used to compare Russian and foreign mediation, and it will reveal their similarities and differences. The induction method will be useful for summarizing the data collected during the research. 
The method of deduction will contribute to the formation of the author's own opinion on the basis of collected data on mediation. 
The special methods, which will be used in the present research, are legal. These methods are tended to be basic for research in jurisprudence. They are historical and legal, comparative legal and socio-legal methods. The historical and legal method is usually used to obtain knowledge about different legal phenomena at different periods of time. In present research, this method will be useful for answering the question about the history of mediation’s legal regulation development from the moment of occurrence to present time in Russia and foreign countries. The comparative legal method is accepted to use to search and explore similarities and differences between certain institutions of law of different countries. The comparison of the mechanism of mediation in different countries will be investigated with the help of this method. The socio-legal method is designed to investigate legal reality through questionnaires or interviewing. Using this method will provide information about the current state of mediation in Russia. 
The choice of research methods is determined by the goals and objectives of present study. 
Results Anticipated
This part of the project proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained during the research. 
The data obtained by the methods mentioned will give an opportunity not only to answer theoretical questions, but also to analyze current situation in modern Russian law system. Moreover, the results anticipated are intended to be possible to offer a set of recommendations and solutions for existing practical problems of mediation. The problems of development and the widespread introduction of mediation in Russia should be resolved. Also, it is necessary to deal with the problem of diminishing the role and effectiveness of extrajudicial resolution of legal conflicts. Offered recommendations and solutions will be based on the analyzing current situation and forecasting further development of mediation in Russia. In addition, question about expediency of using the institute of mediation in Russia should be answered. 
Certainly, the range of issues under consideration is limited, but this provides an opportunity for further research. 
Conclusion
It appears from what has been discussed that the problem of diminishing the role and effectiveness of the extrajudicial procedure for resolving legal conflicts does exist and is relevant for the Russian legal system. In addition, serious attention should be paid to the development of mediation and its broad practical implementation exists. 
To recapitulate, it can be stated, that the research will be an attempt to find and offer a set of solutions to mentioned problems. It is hoped, that the results will satisfy the goals and objectives of the study and will have practical relevance and applicability.



