Introdaction
Background. Bribery- is umbrella term, which contain two independent compositions of crime against state authorities, statutorily required in the Russian Federation, namely taking bribe and giving bribe. These crimes are inextricably linked between themselves. Committing one of them is impossible without committing other. Despite measures taken, bribery still greatly complicates normal functioning of public mechanisms, prevents social transformations, economic growth, 	arouse mistrust institutions of state. Bribery is considered as one of the threats to the security of the Russian Federation.
During the period from January to December 2016, investigators of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation investigated 5100 crimes under Art. 290 of the Criminal Code (bribery) and 5,076 crimes under Art. 291 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (giving bribes), for the period from January to September 2017, 1968 and 1869 crimes, respectively. [Official website of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation]. This figure, of course, indicates a high level of bribery in our country.
Investigations of crimes, provided for Art. 190 and art. 191 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation is plagued by a number of constraints of a criminal nature, required a detailed consideration a wide range of issues related to the implementation of criminal law and criminological tools for crime prevention, there are also a number of controversial issues, for the solution of which it is necessary to offer concrete measures to reform and improve the legislative base.
Problem Statement. The purpose of work is study of criminal law and criminological aspects of bribery taking into account the analysis of the current state of crime in this field in order to develop theoretical and practical recommendations on improving legislation, law enforcement practices and improving the effectiveness of measures in countering bribery.
To achieve this goal, the following tasks were set:
- to analyze the criminal-legal description of bribery,
- to investigate criminological aspects of bribery, 
- to propose measures, improve the criminal and legal struggle against bribery.
Delimitations of the Study. The present study proposes to consider some questions concerning criminal and criminological aspects of bribery, to develop measures for improvement of criminally-legal fight against bribery. 
The first Chapter deals with the issue of criminal-legal characteristic of bribery. 
The second Chapter examines the criminological aspects of bribery. 
The third Chapter is devoted to measures to improve the criminal law fight against bribery.
Professional Significance the development of measures to prevent corruption and bribery will serve as the basis for the practical sphere, determination of contentious moments in the qualification the administration of justice.
Definitions of Key Terms
Bribery-  the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of something of value for the purpose of influencing the action of an official in the discharge of his or her public or legal duties.The expectation of a particular voluntary action in return is what makes the difference between a bribe and a private demonstration of goodwill. To offer or provide payment in order to persuade someone with a responsibility to betray that responsibility is known as seeking Undue Influence over that person's actions. When someone with power seeks payment in exchange for certain actions, that person is said to be peddling influence. Regardless of who initiates the deal, either party to an act of bribery can be found guilty of the crime independently of the other. 
Latent criminality-  in criminology, the part of criminality that for some reason is not reflected in the criminal judiciary statistics and does not become the object of criminal judicial proceedings. In latent criminality, crimes remain unknown to the authorities who have the duty to institute criminal proceedings because the criminals conceal their actions or because the victims and witnesses are unwilling to appeal to the authorities. Latent criminality also includes crimes that became known to officials or the competent authorities but were not registered because of the shortcomings of the system of crime accounting or as a result of negligence on the part of the officials. 
Criminalization- The action of turning an activity into a criminal offence by making it illegal. 
Literature Review 
Stadies of corruption issues undoubtedly for a long time anyhow touched upon in the works of many jurists all over the world. This is due to the fact, that corruption has existed since ancient times, at the stage of the emergence of nationhood. Development of this field of science in each country takes into account the personal historical path. As for Russian Federation, in corruption perception index annually published by Transparency International our contry ranked 131 out of 176. This figure shows that there is still high level of corruption crime. Moreover, we should to say that such crimes as bribery is extremely high latency. For this reason, an attampt to explane corruption phenomenon was made by a number of scientists. The problem of bribery was touched upon in the works of such prominent scientists as A. Aslakhanov, B. Volzhenkin, L.Gaukhman, A. Gorelik, B. Zdravomyslov, O. Kachmazov, A. Kvitsinia, A. Kirpichnikov, N. Kuznetsova, N. Leikina,. Y. Lyapunov, S. Maksimov, N. Malinovsky, G. Minkovsky, A.  Svetlov, P. Yani. The monograph of V. Borkova is devoted to the issues of prevention corruption. The key ideas of Victor Borkov could be defined as following- criminal law should provide :
1) suppression of association of officials and businessmen in order to commit corruption crimes;
2) criminalization of actions of bribers from crimes of officials;
3) prevention of organized forms of corruption, the development of which makes harm to the functioning of the state consistent and systematic.
According to Borkov, сorruption relations displace normal social interaction in the exercise of public functions and are the basis for the most dangerous malfeasance. It is necessary to establish criminal liability for the creation of a corrupt organization with a view to extracting its illegal property benefit by members through the use of its officials or positions within the organization, as well as the management of such an organization. In the second part of this article Borkov proposes to provide  liability for participation in a corrupt organization or crimes committed by it, and in the third case for the use by an official of his powers, position or authority of a position in the interests of a corrupt organization.
An alternative approach is proposed by the authors B. Sidorov and I. Gumerov. They found that it is also important to establish system control over the implementation of anti-corruption legislation is not only state structures, but also people's control, which has legal powers for effective anti-corruption activities. It is difficult to disagree, however, this issue, in my opinion, requires detailed elaboration and regulation, since public control does not have the status of legal control. 
Criminological problems of corruption and bribery were investigated by such jurists as V.  Aleksandrov, E. Antonova, V. Astanin, G. Burganov, A. Bykov,          N. Vlasenko, I. Vlasov, E. Volkonskaya, S. Golovko, S. Gracheva, V. Dvoeglazov, P. Kabanov, A. Koval, V. Kozlov and others.
The basis for a present stadies is provided by a large number of legal acts, which contains legal framework for studying topic. At this work we will pay close attention to three legal acts: Criminal Code of Russin Federation, Bribery Act 2010 of  the United Kingdom of Great Britain, United Nations Convention against Corruption. Bribery issues in Russian Federation regulated by Art. 290 and 291 of  Criminal Code. It will occupy the main place in our research. Сonstituent elements of a crime should be carefully analyzed. So, in accordance with Art. 290 of the Criminal Code of Russian Federation, 
1. Bribe-taking by a functionary, in person or through an intermediary, in the form of money, securities, or other assets or property benefits, for actions (inaction) in favour of a bribe-giver or the persons he represents, if the functionary then takes actions (inaction) which are part and parcel of the functionary's official powers, or if the latter, by virtue of his official position may further such actions (inaction), and also for overall patronage or connivance in the civil service,
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of 700 to 1,000 minimum wages, or in the amount of the wage or salary, or any other income of the convicted person for a period of seven to twelve months, or by deprivation of liberty for a term of up to five years, with deprivation to hold specified offices or to engage in specified activities for a term of up to three years.
2. Bribe-taking by a functionary for illegal actions (inaction)
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of three to seven years, with disqualification to hold specified offices or to engage in specified activities for a term of up to three years.
3. Deeds provided for in the first or second part of this Article, and committed by a person who holds a government post of the Russian Federation or a government post of a subject of the Russian Federation, or by the head of a local self-government body,
shall be punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of five to ten years, with disqualification to hold specified offices or to engage in specified activities for a term of up to three years [Criminal Code of Russian Federation].
To compare the two legal systems: the anglo-saxon and the romano-germanic will be syudied Bribery Act 2010 of  the United Kingdom of Great Britain.
Legal issues of bribery are also represented in an international document- United Nations Convention against Corruption. It is the first international legal instument against corruption, which was adopted at the plenary meeting of the 58th session of the UN General Assembly on October 31, 2003. This legal act as goals proclaims the fallowing: а) «To promote and strengthen measures to prevent and combat corruption more efficiently and effectively»; b) «To promote, facilitate and support international cooperation and technical assistance in the prevention of and fight against corruption, including in asset recovery»; c) «To promote integrity, accountability and proper management of public affairs and public property». With reference to the russian law it is necessary to analyze Criminal Code of Russin Federation and United Nations Convention against Corruption in the aggregate.
Methods. This part of the proposal explains the methods that are goinng to be used in carrying out the study. In accordance with the tasks assigned it will be expedient to use methods of theoretical and practical analysis, analogy method, historical-legal, system-comparative and statistical.
Results Anticipated. Аt the stage of preparing the project proposal it were analyzes the features of the current legislation related to the criminal law aspects of bribery, described necessary for further research scientific works, publications, monographs and other literature, opinions of some authors.
By accomplishing the research project it would be extremely interesting to receive information which is hardly presented nowadays  in free access- the information concerning real figures of registered crimes in each region. Moreover, it is necessary to 
Conclusion In conclusion I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. Bribery still greatly complicates normal functioning of public mechanisms, prevents social transformations, economic growth, arouse mistrust institutions of state. There are many controversial points in the qualification such crime, as bribery. That is why, in the next level of this study we will analyze the aspects of bribery in Russia envisaged by the current legislation will be considered. 
