Introduction
The background of the study. Representation in courts is currently a widespread phenomenon. The number of cases involving the representative, examined by arbitral courts, over the past five years has increased by 40%. 
In modern conditions, the principle of disposability and procedural obligation of parties to prove the validity of their claims and objections, and the increase in the number of complex court cases due to dynamic changes in legal and economic systems require the help of qualified lawyers. 
Despite the fact that representation of the interests of citizens and organizations in courts on professional basis in our country is widespread, the Russian Federation is still on the way of forming such a market. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of professional judicial representation signifies the growing concern for establishment of professional criteria for selection of representatives. 
The increased interest of the state and the public towards the institution of free legal aid as a guarantee of constitutional rights and freedoms of a person and citizen of the Russian Federation directs the legal science to search for optimal organizational and legal forms of its implementation, including by recourse to world historical experience.
At the legislative level the draft law «Justice» is being developed, according to which in Russia the advocacy monopoly on representation in courts will be introduced by 2023. 
The idea of implementation of advocacy monopoly on representation in courts arouses a lot of interests and causes debates in legal community. It also has become the main significant subject of wide range of contemporary studies. 
It should nevertheless be noted that both legal community and ordinary citizens recognize the need to introduce the institute of professional judicial representatives. The main factor that causes contradiction is the form of realization of such institute. 
The problem statement. The general purpose of this research is a comprehensive study of the institute of representation in the civil and arbitral procedure on the basis of the norms of legislation, analysis of judicial practice, theoretical and empirical base, the identification of shortcomings in legal regulation and the analysis of possible ways of their solution.
The object of this study is the legal relationship arising from representation in the civil and arbitral process. 
The subject of the study is the legal norms governing the main provisions on representation in the civil and arbitral proceedings.
Hypotheses: 
1)	The Institute of Judicial Representation is a guarantee of observance of the constitutional right to judicial protection. 
2)	The Institute of Judicial Representation makes it possible to ensure the observance of the principles of legality, competitiveness, discretion and procedural equality of the parties when considering cases in civil and arbitration proceedings.
Research questions:
1)	What is the legal nature of judicial representation and how does it differ from other similar relations with it?
2)	How do the judicial representation and qualified legal assistance relate to each other?
3)	What features of types of representation and the grounds for its occurrence can be distinguished in the civil and arbitration process?
4)	What are the requirements for candidates for judicial representatives?
The formulated research questions and hypotheses cover the proposed research study that will examine in some depth certain aspects of judicial representation. 
I do not set myself the aim to explore in any depth the problem of judicial representation in criminal and administrative process. The study finding will be limited by the investigation of the institute of judicial representation in civil and arbitral process. 
I will make no effort to explore in further details approaches to this institute that various theorists have advocated. The main objective of research is to study the empirical part of the problem.  
Professional significance. The general purpose of the study requires an initial consideration of the general problems of the institute of judicial representation in civil and arbitral procedure. 
To realize the overall goal it is necessary to solve a number of objectives: 
1. To reveal the concept and legal nature of the judicial representation; 
2. To consider the main types of judicial representation.
3.  To analyze the legal status of representatives, the requirements imposed on them and their powers in the process. 
4. To study the reasons for the appearance of procedural representation and the ways of its execution.
5. To explore the situation on the Russian market of judicial representation;
6. To conduct a comparative analysis of the legal regulation of representation in the civil and arbitration process. 
7. To identify shortcomings in the legal regulation of representation in the civil and arbitration process and suggest possible ways to solve them.
The research study will be of primary significance to all those who are engaged in the institute of judicial representation and various scholars  since it offers directions for further research on the subject of this topic. This trend of investigation is considered as essentially relevant for understanding the institute of judicial representation within the framework of the concept of providing qualified legal assistance. 
Literature review
The proposed review will be based on systematic way of studying the existing literature on the subject. Since the institution of representation is extremely complex and multifaceted, it seems appropriate to limit it, focusing on the judicial representation in civil and arbitral processes. A considerable amount of research in this problem area is connected with the place the representation takes in the system of human rights protection.  In various  studies, numerous attempts have been made to give a broader theoretical and empirical basis to this phenomenon and to revise the traditional views, concepts and approaches to the legal nature of representation, the procedural status of the representative in a court case and the essence of representative powers in order to facilitate understanding this legal institution, to decrease the discrepancy between theory and reality, and aid practitioners in solving legal problems.
The institute of representation is one of the oldest law institutes, its actual history began in the Roman Empire, where he was first mentioned. Throughout its history of development the judicial representation has been repeatedly discussed among professionals.  For a long time the research was quite limited to the consideration of general issues until the institute received the necessary legal regulation.  Further studies have found the need to narrow the focus of research and make them more specific. The regulation of the Institute and its active application in practice couched a lot of intense debate among theorists and lawyers. It indicates a profound shift in the emphasis and attempt to narrow the gap between theory and practice. This issue now is at the heart of numerous discussions and under increasing scrutiny in the works of a number of professionals. 
It is necessary to be noted, that the practice of applying legal norms is changing progressively, in view of the development of the institute of professional representation including the implementation of  the  advocacy monopoly, and also of the development of a single procedural code. So that most of the early studies, in general or in part, lose their practical importance and relevance.
Currently, the institution of judicial representation is the subject of many studies of prominent members of  Russian legal community, in view of the fact that this institution needs to be significantly improved in view of the fact that this institution has undergone considerable changes in recent years under the influence of the development of legal and economic systems. 
Many well-known Russian scientists have been engaged in the investigation of the institution of representation in the civil and arbitration process. Judicial representation has repeatedly become the subject of many theses and monographs of such authors as Bogomolov MV, Voitovich LV, Bortnikova N.A., Tarlo E.G. etc. Many scientific articles of such authors as Khisamov A.H., Tanaga A.N., Potapenko N.S. are devoted to the problems of legal regulation of representation in the civil and arbitration process., these works, carried out at different levels, despite the fact that they are certainly of scientific value, consider only certain theoretical and practical aspects of the legal regulation of this institution, are not complex in nature and do not disclose all the issues of the complexity of the study the given legal institute. 
However, on closer examination most of  these works in this rapidly developing field, despite the fact that they certainly have scientific value, are limited to consideration of separate theoretical and empirical aspects of the legal regulation of this institute. They are not complex in nature and do not disclose all the issues of the complexity of the study the given legal institute.
It can be noted that scientific works as a whole have three areas of research:
analysis of the main provisions of the nature and content of judicial representation on the basis of  theoretical works of the legal scientists without further practical application.
comparative analysis of legal regulation of the institution of judicial representation in foreign countries;
analysis of legal regulation, the identification of its individual shortcomings and the proposal of practical solutions for their improvement.
The third direction of research is of greater practical importance in view of the forthcoming changes in legislation, in particular the introduction of the institution of professional judicial representatives to solve the problem of providing qualified legal assistance. 
The issues of providing qualified legal assistance at present have become a worldwide problem. The concept of legal assistance in foreign countries includes two main areas: providing legal assistance on a commercial basis and providing free legal assistance to those who cannot afford paid lawyers. This approach is reflected in the concept of the advocacy monopoly, which was borrowed by the Russian legislator from the experience of foreign countries.
Studies show that in different countries the advocacy monopoly is fixed in different  forms:
Monopoly de jure, which has an absolute character and means that only advocates have the right to exercise judicial representation and advise on legal issues. Such a monopoly is fixed in the English judicial system, which presupposes the division of lawyers into barristers who can represent clients in all courts of England and Wales and solicitors who consult and prepare court documents. In addition, it can be noted countries where lawyers have a monopoly only on judicial representation. 
Monopoly de facto, which means that it is not fixed at the legislative level, but is widespread in practice. In Germany monopoly is broad, but it does not concern any representation in courts. Thus, in district courts the interests of the parties can be represented by any citizen without lawyers. 
At the moment, we can say that the Russian Federation belongs to the second form of monopoly, since the mandatory participation of lawyers is fixed only in criminal cases, and in the Supreme court and the Constitutional court.  In all other courts, ordinary citizens can represent the interests of the parties. 
In view of the fact that a draft law on the introduction of a lawyer's monopoly is being developed at the legislative level, most of the latest research is devoted to this issue, where the authors examine the positive and negative aspects of the  introduction of such institute or they offer other forms of realization of professional representation, such as licensing or accreditation of judicial representatives.
However, despite extensive research in the field of judicial representation, in recent studies there is still no common position on many problematic questions. Different approaches and theories seem to be uncertain, they underestimate the importance of practice. Some of works reveal the lack of  new  insights and fail to supply the rationale for problematic issues as their solution requires a comprehensive study of theory and practice. In connection with the constantly changing practice, it is necessary to review the existing provisions about the institute of judicial representation. In general, the institute  needs to be investigated in a greater detail and in this project  problematic questions will be considered below in this project.
Methodology
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study. It will include quantitative and qualitative research methods to examine the subject of research in a greater detail. Quantitative methods will be used to analyze the market of judicial representation on the basis of quantitative indicators, in particular, statistical data of the number of court cases examined with the participation of a representative, the number of advocates in the Russian Federation, the number of lawyers who participated in the state system of free legal aid, the number of people seeking help from a lawyer. 
Also, qualitative research methods will be used to analyze the structure and dynamics of public opinion about judicial representatives, the quality of their services, and the introduction of a lawyer's monopoly.
As there is a multiplicity of theoretical and empirical studies concerning judicial representation, the methodological base will includes general scientific methods, including analysis, synthesis, systemic and structural approaches. 
An analysis of the judicial practice and the regulatory framework of representation in civil and arbitral process will be conducted by using specially-legal methods, such as formal-legal, comparative-legal methods. 
Results anticipated \ achieved
This part of the project proposal will be organized in terms of the specific structure: it first will prove hypotheses by examining correlation between different theoretical theses and practical approaches to existing problems, it then will answer on research questions by reporting on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned, and finally it will justify my position, suggestions and recommendations.  The facts obtained and the explanations mentioned will be tested and reliably assessed by using a large database. To bridge the gap in the legal regulation and limit the discrepancy between theory and practice it is informative to focus on considering of the existence of problems, which can be confirmed and exemplified by examples drawn from different sources: statutory acts, judicial practice, literature, media sources. 
Conclusion
The research deals with the actual issue related to the implementation of the constitutional right to qualified legal assistance. The research examines the legal basis for rendering legal assistance in Russia, reveals the main characteristics and types of judicial representation. The possible directions of reforming the institution of judicial representation are disclosed. The criterion of the professionalism of the services rendered by the judicial representative is investigated. A conclusion is made about the expediency of introducing the institution of the advocacy monopoly on the Russian market of judicial representatives.
