Introduction
Background.  It lies in aspects that affect a large number of life situations related to the establishment of paternity, as evidenced by judicial practice. The institute considered in the work has many pitfalls, debatable issues and conflicting opinions, which are worth exploring in detail and forming a clear picture, as well as finding a solution to existing problems in the current legislation.
Conditionally, one can divide relevance into two sections: social and moral problems of the institution of establishing paternity and legal.
The socio-moral aspect is expressed in the application of artificial methods of reproduction. It is known that in some countries the institute of surrogate motherhood is prohibited or its action is limited as much as possible to certain limits in view of the fact that it is artificial and contradicts the norms of morality and religion. In our opinion, the relevance of this aspect consists in considering the legal consolidation of norms in Russian legislation and to understand how acceptable it is in Russia, and whether it violates social norms.
Legal problems of establishing paternity are associated with the emergence of parental rights of fathers and their protection. The state seeks to provide guarantees to children and their parents, as they are interested in developing the institution of the family. Also, legal problems can be traced in family legislation regarding the procedures for establishing paternity, facts of proof, the institution of surrogate motherhood, its legal nature, etc., therefore, relevance lies in the search for possible improvement options and additional norms based on existing realities and complex situations that occur in practice.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research is establishing the origin of children. It is related to the emergence of the rights of the child and their protection. The purpose is study of the content of the institution of establishing the origin of children and its procedures in modern practice. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
1. Consider a general description of the origin of children
2. Describe the voluntary establishment of paternity and motherhood
3. To analyze the establishment of paternity and motherhood in a judicial proceeding
4. Designate the fact of paternity
5. To consider the features of establishing paternity and motherhood in the application of artificial methods of reproduction
Delimitations of the Study. In this research, there are 3 main questions: What is the establishment of paternity and how does it happen? What are the reasons for establishing paternity? How is paternity established in an administrative and judicial manner?
Professional Significance. The practical significance of the study is to find new ways to protect the rights of fathers, mothers and especially children through judicial practice.
Literature Review
In Russian legislation there are problems of the institution of establishing the origin of children from the point of view of theoretical and practical aspects. This issue is discussed in the research by Krasnova T.V., Alekseeva E.V. The article clearly identifies the main foundations of the state establishment of paternity. Foundations depend on whether the father is married to the mother of the child.
The grounds for the state establishment of paternity are as follows:
1. In marriage, the parental rights of the mother and father can be acquired simultaneously at the time of registration of the birth of the child, if the information about the father is certified on the basis of a marriage certificate with the mother.
2. Parental rights of persons who are not married to each other may arise simultaneously, but only if a joint application is submitted simultaneously with the registration of the birth of the child.
3. By a court decision, if the mother wants to establish paternity, and also at the request of the father, if the mother of the child is dead, deprived of civil legal capacity or parental rights, and if it is not possible to establish her whereabouts, then at the request of the father of the child, subject to the consent of the authorities guardianship and trusteeship.
The problem of establishing the origin of children in the framework of family and civil procedure law is indicated by Alieva Z.Z., Kurbanova G.M. in their research. The new facts presented in this paper are related to the procedural aspects of establishing the origin of children and contesting paternity. We mark a number of characteristics:
1. Claims for contesting paternity (motherhood) are a type of disputes related to the establishment of the origin of children. The features inherent in these lawsuits
and the procedure for legal proceedings are explained by the specifics of the material legal relationship.
2. Cases related to the challenge of paternity of the jurisdiction of the district courts (tribal jurisdiction) The alternative territorial jurisdiction rule provides the most favorable conditions for legal proceedings for both the person who has applied to the court for the protection of the rights and interests of the child, and for the child himself, securing the possibility of participation in the hearing .
3. The circle of subjects who are granted the right to appeal to the court with such claims is interested persons who are entitled to file a lawsuit may include the child’s genetic parents, the guardian of the parent recognized by the court as legally incompetent, the surrogate mother and her spouse.
The article by Ivanova N.A. outlines the problem of the institution of establishing the origin of children when using surrogate motherhood in Russian legislation. The author clearly notes the main methods of abuse of law by both parties of the surrogate motherhood agreement.
• Abuse of law by surrogate mothers:
- the requirement of a higher fee than under the contract depending on various situations (the woman who had a child for biological parents, having learned that there would be twins, demanded more remuneration than was stipulated in the contract and refused to give the children away)
- the ability of a surrogate mother to leave the child at home and file a claim to recover child support from the child’s genetic father
• Abuse of law by genetic parents:
- rejection of a sick child
- abandonment of the child for other reasons (the article gives an example when the customer, using the services of several surrogate mothers, abandoned the newborn because he dreamed of a grandson
Methods
For examination of the research, various scientific methods will be used. The research methodology was based on a systematic approach. The use of this method in the work is expressed in the consideration of the problem in two aspects: practical and theoretical, without violating their relationship, without isolating each other, in order to consider the institution of establishing paternity and its functioning. The comparative legal method of analysis is also used when comparing general and special norms governing the institution under study.
If you are an unwed father, you must establish paternity to at least prove you are the child’s father, though it doesn’t automatically give you rights regarding custody and visitation. 
1. Get on the birth certificate. Once your child is born, the easiest way to establish paternity is by getting your name on the birth certificate. (I know, easier said then done for most of you but it’s worth a shot.)
Voluntary Acknowledgment of Paternity (VAP) forms are also available for fathers to sign at the hospital at the time of the child’s birth.
If the mother refuses to provide your name at the time the baby is born or you don’t sign the VAP, you should contact your state’s Department of Records to obtain information on how to complete the form on your own.
2. Get an order through an administrative agency. Administrative agencies (such as Child Support Enforcement) can be helpful during the initial stages of your paternity action by assisting you with filling out forms and helping you obtain a DNA test to establish that you are the father of the child.
3. Get a court order. In my opinion, this is the best method of establishing paternity. To do so, you must file a Petition for Paternity and Child Custody with your local Circuit Court or Family Court. The court will then order a paternity test or look to see if the father is listed on the birth certificate to determine whether paternity has been established.
A court order will generally include a parenting plan outlining custody, visitation and other important aspects involved in the general upbringing of your child. Without the parenting plan, an unwed father is left at the mercy of the mother of the child.
Most states allow you to file a petition with the court prior to the birth. However, the judge generally will not make a final decision regarding paternity until the child is born so establishing paternity before a child is born is rare.
Even if you establish paternity and your rights to the child, the mother may still refuse you to see your child. If this happens and there is a court order in place allowing visitation, you must immediately contact a family law attorney to file a Motion for Contempt and a Family Access Motion.
This will force the mother to comply with the court order and allow your court-mandated visitation or she could face contempt of court charges.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of farther establishment and the data on explored material show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works reveals that there are some reasons of farther establishment. It means that it is necessary to study this issue in detail. I infer that the problem of farther establishment should be considered more structurally. This gives the perspective of possibility to protect children rights better, if we know the way of farther establishment. Achieved outcomes, grounded on study of court practice, display numerous problems and oversights.
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice. The data is presented by science articles and journals from different period. It shows that information, used in our research full and valid. It gives details on three ways of establish paternity. The results support the idea that it is necessary   to know ways of establishment paternity to protect rights of different family members. 
All this determines the solution of the problem of protection rights of different family members. I hope my research helps other students to solve their issues, connected with search judicial practice and also helps to protect children rights.
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that there are three reasons of farther establishment: inheritance, maintenance and protection of children rights. It is suggested by judicial practice. This does not follow from previous researches due to the lack of detail consideration. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of protection of children rights because it is important aspect in family law.
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to doctrine. In the context of research, another interesting aspect emerges, that farther establishment needed to protect also farther rights. The potential for this research lies, first of all, in enriching the methodology, which can be achieved through a comparison, theory application and by incorporating various juridical research methods. As far as ways of establishment paternity is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analysing the court practice.
The findings are essential for law theory, legal practice, etc. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for learners to differentiate definitions , to use proper terminology in the sphere of farther establishment. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing legal experts.
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach by providing various tools for analysis and comparisons. Since the project focuses mainly on court practice and relevant literature review, it will follow descriptive, and evaluative research designsbuilt on qualitative methods.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of family law for further study of father establishment as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
