Introduction
Background. The problem of enforcement of judgments of the ECHR in Russia, which determines the subject of this article, is related to the fact that in the modern world, countries increasingly defending national interests. In the field of western law, most scholars hold the position that the countries participating in the Convention are obliged to abide by the judgments of the ECHR. However, some counties, including the United Kingdom and Germany, are moving towards strengthening national law and its supremacy over international law. The rules of domestic law prevail over international, which makes the failure to execute judgments of the ECHR possible.
Another aspect of the problem is the fact that national and international judicial bodies interpret the same rules of law in different ways, which subsequently leads to the unconstitutionality of ECHR`s judgments. The problem of the constitutionality of judgments of international courts has been widely studied by both Russian and international legal scholars, but previous studies do not seem to have a comprehensive approach to the problem, because the sphere of law is developing dynamically.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: the issue of enforcement of ECHR`s judgments in Russia is often related to the unconstitutionality of the ECHR`s judgments resulting from the primacy of national law over international law. The purpose of the research is to find the optimal balance of national and international law in the domestic system of the state. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following: 
1.       To determine the existing problems for non-execution of ECHR`s judgments.
2.       To identify the causes of existing problems.
3.       To define the approach of legal scholars to the relationship between national law and international law.
4.       To consider the criterion of the constitutionality of ECtHR decisions, i.e. compliance or contradiction with the Constitution of Russia. 
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the study of the reasons that lead to the complexity of the execution of ECHR`s judgments in Russia and ways to solve these problems. This determines some difficulties in the interpretation of the rules of law by the highest courts of a national and international character. More than that one of the delimitations of the study, connected with the previous one, is the essential difference between foreign and Russian legal systems.
Professional Significance.  It seems to be particularly useful to analyze the norms of international law and the constitutional law of Russia related to this research. The problem could be of paramount interest to various scholars, law students and lawyers examining the variability of reasons for non-enforcement of the ECHR judgments because they will identify the causes, the removal of which will be the solution to the issue.
Since the issue studied is of utmost legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who have ever been involved in the field of human rights protection. 
Definitions of Key Terms.  According to the Convention, the jurisdiction of the ECHR is shall extend to all matters concerning the interpretation and application of the Convention and the Protocols. «Constitutionality» is the right of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, at the request of a Federal Executive body, to decide whether a foreign court's judgment will be executed in Russia.
Literature review
The most relevant issue of this study is the study of the interaction of international and national law, the problem of differences in the legal positions of the ECHR and the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation on the protection of human rights, for which we should refer to the works of legal scholars.
In 2015, the Constitutional Court of Russia issued a decree according to which judgments by international bodies will not be executed in Russia if they are, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, contravene the Constitution or are inconsistent with the principles of international law. Lauri Mälksoo and Wolfgang Benedek, who are convinced that the relations between Russia and the ECHR can be called controversial, express concern that the adopted decision will cause abuse on the part of Russia since many of the ECHR's judgments have not been implemented since the publication of the said normative act of the Constitutional Court of Russia.
William E. Pomeranz supports the colleagues mentioned earlier and calls the relations between Russia and the ECHR turbulent. He states that «given that the ECtHR’s effectiveness is predicated on surrender of national sovereignty and the willingness of member states to abide by international court judgments, a residual amount of stress is inevitable between the court and its members». Doctor Pomeranz assumes that both the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation and the ECHR have a common goal, so it is worth overcoming differences to implement the judgments of the European Court.
Bill Bowring emphasis that, despite all the accompanying factors, the Russian Federation's commitment to the United Nations and European regional organizations in terms of diplomatic and financial resources is very significant. In other words, despite the fact that RF stands for the priority of national interests, the fulfillment of judgments of the ECHR is part of a system of cooperation and interaction between the European Union and Russia, therefore, necessary.
In a later work, Bill Bowring continues to insist that Russia's ratification of the Convention was not "transplanting alien concepts and mechanisms onto hostile Russian soil", but rather served as the beginning of the Russian discourse on international law, an unprecedented immersion in it. Russia, according to the author, plays an important role in European political and legal order, so close interaction and implementation of international law both as normative legal acts and implementation of the ECHR's positions in practice will only have a positive impact on Russia.
The research of Winfried H.A.M. van den Muijsenbergh and Sam Rezai of the ECHR`s case " Yukos against Russia" can be considered in the context of Russia's implementation of the ECHR`s judgments. The authors are convinced of the need to strengthen the influence of the ECHR's judgments on the Russian Federation, since, first, the procedure itself gives citizens a chance for justice after the exhaustion of national courts, and secondly, it most objectively considers court cases, excluding the possibility of bias.
Tatiana Solovyova in her paper proposes to classify the reasons for non-execution of ECHR judgments in Russia as follows:
Economic reasons in the form of a lack of funds in the Federal budget for the execution of the ECHR`s judgments. 
Political reasons are the disagreement of Russian state authorities with the substance of the ECHR`s judgments. 
Legal reasons-peculiarities of Russian legislation; well-established judicial practice; absence of personal responsibility of those officials whose decision, action (inaction) became the reason for the appeal to the European court of human rights.
Konstantin Khudoley in his study rightly pointed out that the Convention in the legal system of Russia is above the Constitution of the Russian Federation since the norms of the Constitution establishes that international treaties are above the laws of Russia, but not above the Constitution. Thus, in the case of a dispute between the norms of an international treaty and any of the laws of Russia, including Federal laws, the international legal act will have priority. However, the provisions of the Constitution regarding the priority of international law over the Constitution are ambiguous, which ultimately leads to ambiguity of the constitutionality of ECtHR judgments for Russia.
Konstantin Zorkin, former President of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation, notes in his article  that recently the judges of the ECHR have begun to interpret a number of articles of the Convention extensively. Zorkin emphasis some issues in the ECtHR functions: a deep deviation from previously stated positions, including through the "reinterpretation" of earlier decisions, and increasingly frequent use of the ECtHR in justifying its judgments of the legal structure of the so-called "European consensus".  ECHR adheres to this position: since the relevant issue has already been resolved by the majority of the member states of the Council of Europe in a certain way, to the extent that another state should not be able to act differently. These elements often create conflicts between the constitutional courts and the ECHR
Professor Kokotov in his article argues that even if the Constitutional Court recognizes an ECHR`s judgment as incompatible with the Constitution, it does not mean that the execution of the ECHR`s judgment is "blocked". First, the judgment of the constitutional court, in this case, may mean that the problem is not in the law itself, but in the practice of its application.  Secondly, the constitutional court's recognition of the law as constitutional does not in itself indicate that the current model of legal regulation is optimal, which means that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation does not exclude the responsibility of the legislator from solving the task of optimizing regulation proposed by the ECHR. 
The majority of scholars hold the opinion that all countries that have ratified the Convention should comply with the ECHR's judgments. Some scholars, considering the problem of execution of ECHR`s judgments in Russia, identify a number of existing issues that complicate the process of applying ECHR`s judgments in practice. These issues can be resolved through the reformation of the Russian judicial system.
Methods
For examination of the problem of enforcement of ECHR judgments in the Russian Federation, various scientific methods can be applied due to the specific nature of the problem and the many aspects under consideration. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating the implementation of international law in national legislation, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of the process of strengthening the role of the Constitutional Court in the Russian Federation and its official positions on the judgments of the ECHR. The comparative legal method allows for a qualitative comparison of the legal norms of the national legislation of Russia and international legal norms regulating the protection of human rights, in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal-legal method is a traditional one, which is peculiar to legal science and comes from its nature, and, importantly, allows interpreting the content of legal regulations, the analysis of which is necessary for this paper.
Results anticipated
A preliminary analysis of works on the issue of enforcement of the ECHR's judgments in Russia shows that the best approach to the issue of priority between national and international law will be identified. It is expected that a factor will be identified that affects whether the document will comply with the state's Constitution or not as well. 
The study of approaches to the interpretation of legal norms regulating the protection of human rights, through the use of formal legal and comparative legal methods, should give an answer to the question of whether the ECHR's positions on submitted complaints may contradict the constitutions and other laws of States. 
Moreover, the main problems impeding the implementation of the ECHR judgments in Russia and their causes will be identified.
 
























Conclusion
The results of the present research enable to conclude that there is a number of problems that affect the implementation of the ECHR's judgments in Russia: the need to modernize the state's judicial system, to actively interact with international bodies, and to ensure that the ECHR closely monitors compliance with its decisions.
In the legal sphere, the concept of constitutionality is directly related to the system of interaction between national, including the Constitution, and international law. Depending on which law prevails, is determined by the constitutionality of an act of an international judicial body, including the ECHR.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that this paper will be an attempt to develop the area of correlation between international and national legal systems, which will have a positive impact on the protection of human rights.
