Introduction
The popularity of intentional bankruptcy in Russia is due to the fact that in the case of the bankruptcy procedure, creditors do not receive their claims for obligations in full. So, according to the Unified Federal Register of Legally Significant Information on the Facts of Activities of Legal Entities, Individual Entrepreneurs and Other Economic Entities (hereinafter referred to as the Register) for 2017 in Russia, creditors for obligations made claims in the amount of 1,865,525,920,400,200.28 of which only 103 008 415 334,112 are satisfied, which is only about 5.5% of the total mass of obligations. In 2018, the trend got even worse so out of 2,686,335,650,303 was satisfied 125 105 281 488,263, which is less than 5% of the total mass of obligations.
Fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy in Russia are quite relevant topics. This is due to the fact that the main law governing bankruptcy: the Federal Law "Of Insolvency (Bankruptcy)" dated 10.26.2002 N 127-FL (hereinafter - the Bankruptcy Law) does not have a clear legal definition of the so-called criminal bankruptcies. As a result, the practice of identifying signs of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy does not make it possible to sufficiently prosecute persons who have committed deliberate or fictitious bankruptcy. So, according to the registry for 2017, 1,636 applications were filed for signs of intentional bankruptcy and 44 applications for signs of fictitious bankruptcy. In 2018, 1876 applications were made for signs of intentional bankruptcy and 54 for 0 signs of fictitious bankruptcy.
According to the Judicial Department, the arbitration manager’s opinion on the establishment of signs of fictitious or intentional bankruptcy in 2017 was issued in respect of 98 legal entities, 21 individual entrepreneurs, 194 individuals (313 in total), and in 2018 - in relation to 71 legal entities, 23 individual entrepreneurs and 354 individuals (448 in total). Non-application of the rules on exemption of a citizen from fulfillment of obligations in connection with criminal or administrative liability for unlawful actions during bankruptcy, intentional or fictitious bankruptcy was recorded in 2017 in relation to 3 individual entrepreneurs and 21 debtor citizens; in 2016 in respect of 6 individual entrepreneurs and 47 debtor citizens. Publicly available information on the consideration by arbitration courts of cases on bringing to administrative liability under Art. 14.12 Administrative Code of the Russian Federation Judicial Department does not publish.
Based on these statistics, it is possible to determine the relevance of the problem: the relevance of this problem is that in the realities of the modern economic crisis it increases the number of bankrupt enterprises, and the real figures for satisfying the requirements of creditors prompt the heads of firms to criminal bankruptcy.
The aim of the study is to analyze the problematic aspects of the current legislation on fictitious and intentional bankruptcy, as well as to identify methods for identifying signs of fictitious and intentional bankruptcy.
To achieve this goal, the following tasks are formulated:
· Investigate the regulatory framework for fictitious and intentional bankruptcy
· To analyze the reasons for the emergence of the institution of criminal bankruptcy
· Establish features of the legal nature of criminal bankruptcy
· Consider the roles of criminal bankruptcy entities
· Develop the necessary methods to identify the facts of intentional bankruptcy
The object of this study is a set of legal norms and social relations associated with fictitious and intentional bankruptcy
The subject of this study is the relevant legislation of the Russian Federation and foreign countries, theoretical studies studying the issues of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy, criminological and criminal legal foundations of the occurrence of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy.
Literature review
Ooghe H., De Prijcker S. Failure processes and causes of company bankruptcy: a typology.
The article makes an attempt to more deeply disclose the process of company failure, to determine the relationship between the characteristics of the company, the main causes of failure and financial consequences. The author believes that at the moment there are four types of reasons for failure: the process of the collapse of unsuccessful startups, the process of failure of the ambitions of company growth, the process of failure of blinded growth companies and the process of failure of inefficient companies. There are significant differences between these four failure processes in terms of the presence and importance of specific causes of bankruptcy, that is, mistakes made by management, mistakes in corporate policy and the importance of external factors. 
Pompe P., Bilderbeek J. The prediction of bankruptcy of small and medium-sized industrial firms.
In this article, the author conducts a broad analysis of various statistics. In his research, he focuses on predicting bankruptcy through the use of bankruptcy models and individual financial ratios. A failure forecasting model establishes a link between bankruptcy and a series of financial ratios. According to the author, these coefficients can be calculated using the information contained in the annual report of the company 
Everett J., Watson J. Small business failure and external risk factors.
In this article authors seeks to explore the impact of macro-economic factors on small business mortality. The results suggest that economic factors appear to be associated with between 30 percent and 50 percent of small business failures, depending on the definition of failure used. As expected, failure rates were positively associated with interest rates (where failure was defined as bankruptcy) and the rate of unemployment (where failure was defined as discontinuance of ownership). However, somewhat unexpectedly, failure rates were found to be positively associated with lagged employment rates (where failure was defined as to prevent further losses) and with current and lagged retail sales (where failure was defined as either: failed to 'make a go of it'; discontinuance of ownership; or discontinuance of business.) This indicates that a strengthening economy may provide the trigger for an increase in voluntary business exits as individual proprietors seek to maximize the returns available to them on both their financial and human capital.
This article explore methodological topics of bankruptcy prediction modelling—unbalanced sampling, sample bias, and unbiased predictions of bankruptcy.  According to the author: bankruptcy models are usuall yestimated with the use of non-random samples, which creates sample choice biases.  	He considered there are two types of unbalanced samples: when bankrupt and non-bankrupt companies enter the sample in unequal numbers; and when sample composition allows for different ratios of bankrupt and non-bankrupt companies than those in the population. An imbalance of type, being more general, is examined in several sections of the research. He offers an extended view of the relationship between the biased and unbiased estimated probabilities of bankruptcy—probability of default (PD). A common error in applications is neglecting the possibility of calibrating the PD obtained from a bankruptcy model to the unbiased PD that is population adjusted.  In the final section, he explores sample bias effects on classification.
The Status of the Trustee in Bankruptcy Jacques Auger, Albert Bohemiar. 
In this article authors explore the status of Trustee in bankruptcy. According to the author the status of the trustee in bankruptcy is the cornerstone of the general framework for bankruptcy and insolvency. In English law, the trustee acquires a right of fiduciary ownership over the debtor's property. On the other hand, the liquidator of a corporation only has powers of management and liquidation. Quebec doctrine and jurisprudence have tried to incorporate the status of the trustee in bankruptcy within the broad civil law system. With the new Civil Code of Québec, the trust concept has taken a new meaning, and the concept of administrator of the property of others has developed. Streamlining preoccupations have led to some thinking concerning such fundamental questions: what the status of trustee in process of bankruptcy and how he can dispose of property of debtor.
Peterson D.E. United States: The Advantages of Purchasing Property From a Bankruptcy / D.E. Peterson; 
According to the author there are some benefits of purchasing property. Such as: law price because of 	the distress situation, reduces or eliminates the possibility that the transaction will be set aside as a fraudulent transfer. Another reason it may be preferable to purchase from a bankrupt is that federal law allows the bankrupt seller to sell the property “free and clear” of encumbrances and interests. 
Lisetskaia Anfisa: Bankruptcy risk over the business cycle: factors identification. Author concern that in Russia the problem of fictitious and intentional bankruptcy identification is of high importance. Despite the fact that the fictitious and intentional bankruptcy is part of economic crime, the trend in this area shows a growing tendency. The use of bankruptcy institute for personal purposes impedes the implementation of main functions of this institute – improvement of the economy and creation of effective competitive environment. In her opinion today some factors prevent effective control after fraudulent bankruptcy, and one of the main problems is the absence of clear description of components of fictitious bankruptcy in legislation. Moreover, there are other difficulties connected with identification of fictitious and intentional bankruptcy are connected with concealing assets or financial liabilities, concealing information about property, transfer of property to other owner, property destruction, falsification of accounting and other registration documents. 
Zhurkina O.V. The evolution of the institution of criminal bankruptcy and the current state of the Baltic Humanitarian Journal.
The author describes the evolution of the institution of criminal bankruptcy, reveals the relationship of criminal law aspects and public relations. It reveals a causal relationship between the lag of criminal law norms and social relations expressed in weak legislative regulation, the complexity of terminology and the low quality of these norms. It describes the reasons for the increase in the number of illegal bankruptcies, and also describes the inaction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs as one of the reasons for the increase in illegal bankruptcies. The article also reviews the historical analysis of the institution of bankruptcy.
F. Abasheva, G.Kh. Shautaeva S.V. Vlasova Some problems of initiating criminal cases and proving crimes related to the commission of illegal actions in bankruptcy. 
The article provides statistical data on cases related to articles 195, 196 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation. In addition, the article reveals the main factors for which it is worth prosecuting persons who have committed signs of compositions provided for in the relevant articles of the criminal bankruptcy code.
Dobrovlyanina O.V., Kondratyeva K.S., Patyrbaeva K.V. Types of illegal bankruptcies in the Russian Federation: some problems of legal regulation.
The article describes the reasons for the appearance of illegal bankruptcies and their classification. The purposes of illegal bankruptcies are disclosed, such as: tax evasion, change of ownership of property and theft of property. Describes how to commit illegal bankruptcies, such as: deliberate bankruptcy - the action or inaction of a participant or the head of a legal entity, which results in a person's inability to meet the requirements of creditors, fictitious bankruptcy - knowingly false public announcement of the founder or leader of the person about the insolvency of a person or an announcement by an entrepreneur or citizen about insolvency. In addition, the following methods of deliberate bankruptcy are disclosed: alienation of property of a legal entity, transfer of funds without actual grounds, withdrawal of funds by using fictitious payments, transfer of the right to demand debt; withdrawal of labor resources. It also considers the responsibilities of arbitration managers (trustee) and their role in identifying signs of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy.
Result anticipated.
It is supposed to study the regulatory framework of the institution of bankruptcy, to determine the uniformity of terms associated with illegal bankruptcies, to identify real methods for identifying signs of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy. Based on this study, to propose a more correct version of the legal regulation of illegal bankruptcies and identify the causes of significant discrepancies in court cases related to fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy from real statements about the identification of signs of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy.
Methods: 
The methodological basis of the study consists of general scientific and particular scientific methods of cognition. These include the dialectic method, the historical method, comparative legal and empirical methods, logical and analytical methods.
Conclusion.
To sum up, it is worth noting that the institution of bankruptcy in the current period of the economic crisis is especially relevant. In this regard, issues of fictitious and intentional bankruptcy are also quite acute. In connection with the above factors, it is worth noting that the need for proper legal regulation of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy is significant for the real purpose of the institution of bankruptcy, namely, the restoration of creditors' rights and the filing of a “new start” for bankrupt enterprises.
Many authors described the current problems of legal regulation of intentional and fictitious bankruptcy, they also proposed correct legislative changes, defined the terminological component of the institution of bankruptcy. However, despite this, the current situation in the courts does not reflect the real picture that exists in a deliberate and fictitious bankruptcy, since the numbers of applications for signs of illegal bankruptcies differ significantly from the numbers of court cases on this issue.
In this regard, it should be noted that modern legislation on fictitious and intentional bankruptcy is significantly outdated. As a result of this, many lenders face fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy and do not receive their actual payment of obligations. This emphasizes the need for legislative changes on this issue.



