Introduction
Background. The modern world does not stand still and is constantly evolving, the branch of science and technological achievements in our time is constantly being modernized and transformed. Despite the already existing variety of problems, the solution of which is provided by the existing criminal legislation, it is precisely in connection with the rapid change in the world around us that some of them are one of the most important: what exactly does the legislator refer to as a criminal act and why precisely this? Will I break the law by doing one thing or another? However, this also works in the opposite direction – we should not forget that over time, some criminal acts cease to be such, lose their status of socially dangerous; in this case, the question arises: what exactly and why does the government cease to consider criminal? The processes of recognizing a certain act as criminal or vice versa not criminal are called criminalization and decriminalization and their study is extremely important, since when it is used by legislator, it affects both the course of the criminal law policy and directly the fate of the country's citizens. That is why this research is important and relevant - it can help answer existing questions about the criminalization and decriminalization of acts and highlight legal gaps related to this topic.
Problem Statement. To achieve aforementioned goal of this research (to study the theoretical and practical aspects associated with the processes of criminalization and decriminalization and etc.) the following research objectives were set:
Investigate the grounds and conditions of criminalization and decriminalization;
Consider the main problems of criminalization and decriminalization;
Study the impact of criminalization and decriminalization of acts on the causes and conditions of crime;
Analyze the impact of criminalization and decriminalization of acts on existing criminal law;
Give recommendations on improving the existing mechanisms of criminalization and decriminalization of acts.
Delimitations of the Study. The research project is primarily focused on the study of existing legislation, on the analysis of the reasons for classifying certain acts as socially dangerous and, accordingly, criminalized, or the other way around. Some of these reasons are not directly specified in the legislation, and therefore, to determine them, we have to seek knowledge in juridical dogma. 
Professional Significance. The research will be of primary importance to students of law faculties, lawyers and government, who face who face the problems of criminalization and decriminalization one way or another, sooner rather than later. deal with the creation of civil or intellectual legal norms. Russian literature and judicial practice do not contain a deep analysis of these issues. The relevance of the topic of this work is also revealed by frequent changes in criminal law - the loss of criminal punishment or its acquisition by certain acts indicates the importance of similar issues for the legislator. In addition, it would prove to be useful to provide some recommendations for resolving potential problems in future. 
Literature review
Criminalization and decriminalization of acts are one of those topics whose problems have attracted attention for a very long time - forensic scientists, sociologists, historians and others have been trying to answer existing rhetorical and practical questions; that is exactly why a significant number of Russian and foreign researchers have devoted their works to the issues raised in the research. Moreover, nowadays more and more researchers in the field of jurisprudence are addressing the issues of these processes.
Salman Luthan, while exploring the aforementioned topic, observes several definitions given by other scientists, and, using a combination of the most proper, according to the author, components, creates his own concept. Moreover, the author also considers the unusual definition of criminalization from the point of view of “value” – according to Luthan:  “It is considered as a transformation of values, which influences some acts to become socially dangerous and begin to be prosecuted”.
Nechaev’s article aims to develop a scientifically based classification of criminalization and decriminalization of acts on various grounds and using examples of Russian lawmaking. After the examination of the approaches presented in the legal literature, the author offers six grounds for classification for criminalization and decriminalization, including the following: “The legislative way of implementation; implementation mechanism; doctrinal method of implementation; implementation vector; nature of implementation; the extent to which criminal prohibitions are covered”.
Richard Frase’s study is focused hardly on the definition of a "criminal" sanction and on ways of abuse of criminal law in corresponding sphere. In his research, author considers such questions as: “What does it mean to call something a crime? How do criminal prohibitions differ from various civil laws and regulations?”. Moreover, he presents a massive study of analytical data on a unidirectional tendency to adopt new criminal laws, without repealing or substantially restricting old ones that are not even enforced.
In his work, Tatarnikov V.G. considers the trends of criminalization and decriminalization of crimes against life and health in the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation and analyzes the corpus delicti, in the description of which the person is both the main and additional object of the crime. Moreover, author states that: “Criminalization and decriminalization processes are too inconsistent for the current law system, considering that they are directly related to the most important constitutional rights of an individual”. Thus, the author thoroughly examines theoretical and legislative sources (including, for example, the Federal Law “On Amending the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation and the Criminal Procedure Code of the Russian Federation on Improving the Grounds and Procedure for Exemption from Criminal Liability”, etc.) and studies the changes in the articles of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation related to crimes against life and health.
Markuntsov’s paper is devoted to the interconnection of changes in the system of legislation with the corresponding changes in the economic condition, political situation or with changes in the socio-psychological processes of society, and also explores the significance of the relevant criminological conditions for decriminalization of acts, which, according to Markuntsov, include: “The relative prevalence of the act; criminal and political adequacy of the criminal law prohibition; the presence in society of socio-economic resources (primarily material) and others, which are described in detail in the article”.
In his article, Prozumentov L.M. considers the content of the concept of “social danger” and notes that: “It is the only basis for criminalization of acts and differs from the other conditions in its necessity for the concept of criminalization to exist, since its presence means the need for the existence of an appropriate criminal law norm”. Nevertheless, the author notes that if there is a basis for the act, the act will not surely be criminalized (decriminalized), since the basis is a necessary but not sufficient condition - there are also other conditions that determine the expediency of criminalizing (decriminalizing) the acts. 
Lihachev and Bushmin’s research, according to authors, is mainly concerned to: “…the main trends of the criminal legislation of the Russian Federation, acting under conditions of social transformation” (p.179). Moreover, the article analyzes the positions of the leading scientists of the criminal law of the Russian Federation and contains the authors interpretation of criminal law development trends of Russia. Most importantly, a large section of this paper contains discourse about the balance between the processes of criminalization and the decriminalization and depenalization, in which authors give their own advice on improving the criminal legal system.
Woldemichael Zelalem Shiferaw in his study inspects the human trafficking problems, which cause multi-dimensional harmful consequences on individuals and researches the various steps (including legislative measures) the government of Ethiopia has taken to meet the requirements of the UN Trafficking Protocol. Most importantly for the current research, author critically examines: “…whether the criminalization and prosecution aspect of the Proclamation No. 909/2015 (Prevention and Suppression of Trafficking in Persons and Smuggling of Migrants Proclamation), which was adopted to deal with the smuggling of migrants and human trafficking, complies with international standards”.
In their work Malko A.V. and Vyrleeva-Balaeva O.S. study prohibitions serving as significant means of legal policy, analyze their place and role in the process of formation and implementation of the modern Russian legal policy. According to authors: “Prohibitions require support not only by legal means, but also by social norms, general culture, material resources for the adopting fully realized legal policy”. Moreover, the paper states that the principle “not prohibited by law means permitted” is effective only in the presence of a moral basis, stable traditions of orderliness, culture, internal readiness for self-restriction.
Methods
In this part of the project proposal the methods, which will be used in conducting the research, are explained. The methodology of this study was based on the following methods: formal legal, comparative legal, systemic and others. The formal legal method is used to define the concept of criminalization and decriminalization processes, their grounds, conditions, etc. The comparative legal method is used to compare these processes among themselves, along with comparing the opinions of legal scholars in this topic. The systemic method is aimed at considering the above processes as parts of the criminal law policy system.
Results anticipated
It can be deduced from the preliminary analysis of the works by Russian and foreign scholars that there are different approaches to the discussed issue. The opinions of the authors regarding the concepts of the processes of criminalization and decriminalization, the reasons and the grounds for their implementation differ for the most part; this undoubtedly confirms the difficulty of arriving at a uniform result, but does not make it impossible in any way.
A preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice. It shows that the lack of legal consolidation of the grounds for criminalization and decriminalization processes often negatively affects law enforcement practice. This situation should be corrected to increase the efficiency of the system, for example with the help of the amendments and advices from this research.
Conclusion
The result of this work was a detailed review of the theoretical component of criminalization and decriminalization processes, in creation of which several ideas were proposed to improve the existing conceptual apparatus of criminal law. These include:
The establishment of the concepts of criminalization and decriminalization processes at the legislative level to systematize information currently available only in the doctrine of information;
Fixation of the appropriate conditions and grounds for the above processes to increase the efficiency and clarity of their application by the legislator in the reform of the Criminal Code and others.
The disclosure of the impact of criminalization and decriminalization on crime and criminal law led us to the following conclusions about the most important aspects of using these processes to improve the legal and social situation in the state:
Termination of ignoring the theoretical component of criminalization and decriminalization - such a reluctance of the legislator to consolidate the conceptual apparatus may lead to the fact that, when deciding on the reform of the legislation, not all necessary factors that determine the possibility, admissibility and, in fact, the expediency of establishing a criminal law prohibition, will be used (or its cancellation);
Sound and socially determined introduction of new norms and changes to existing ones - the law should be produced by the real needs of society and protect the interests of its citizens as efficiently as possible. Therefore, the legislator needs to be extremely clear, perhaps, basing on the above conditions and the reasons, when using the criminalization process - the introduction of “weak”, ineffective norms will not only not help the protection of society, but it may additionally weaken it, because the existence of a certain “gap” in the law will lead some individuals precisely to commit seemingly prohibited acts.
