Introduction
Background. Considerable part of state budget revenue is formed with tax revenues, which means that tax revenues are essential for social well-being and economical security. According to the official statistics number of registered tax crimes increases annually. As a result, the State budgeting system suffers great losses every year.  It should be noted that not only the number of tax crimes changes but also their nature. They modify rapidly, adapting to social and economic realities. Tax criminals have high level of education, possess special knowledge and are constantly improving. They are aware of the “gaps” in the Russian legislation and in taxation sphere, in particular, because, as rule, belong to a professional business entity. In addition, the crimes under consideration are associated with vast document traffic which requires profound knowledge in accounting and taxation. The above mentioned conditions special aspects of initiation and investigation of tax-related cases which if taken into account in practice is a necessary precondition for timely, efficient and high quality investigation of such cases. Moreover, the scientific understanding of these aspects can determine further improvement of criminal - procedural mechanisms aimed to confront tax crimes, and minimize negative practices: investigative errors, unsubstantiated charges, acquittals, etc. All these factors determined the choice of the topic and conditioned its theoretical and practical relevance.
Problem Statement. The goal of the research is to analyze the principal characteristics of initiation and investigation of tax-related cases, and to develop proposals on improvement of the legislation and law enforcement practices. 
In achieving this goal, the following objectives were set and addressed:  
1. To study reasons and grounds for initiation tax-related cases which are set in the Russian legislation in force and to analyze the evolution of the legislation in this area;
2. To study specific features of examining of the reports on tax-related crimes and to determine the necessary and sufficient criteria for a decision to initiate tax-related cases;
3. To study the characteristics of facts and limits in proof in tax-related cases;
4. To study the features of the investigative proceedings during the initial and subsequent stages of the criminal investigation of tax crimes;
5. To examine the features of the end of the preliminary investigation of tax-related cases;
6. To analyze judicial and investigative practices in order to identify common weaknesses and omissions arising in the process of initiation and investigation of the cases;
7. To develop a science-based proposals to improve the legislation and law enforcement practice in the investigation of the cases. 
Professional Significance. Science-based proposals for improving the legislation and law enforcement practice can help to minimize cases of unjustified (unlawful) refusal to initiate criminal proceeding in tax cases, number of the cases returned by prosecutor for further investigation, and fact of entry of judgment of acquittal. A qualitative study of such cases will have significant impact on compensation of damages caused to the State. It will also contribute to prevention of further crimes and will help to create basis and possibility for development of honest business practices. 
The scientific novelty of the research lies in the fact of analysis recent changes in legislation, materials judicial and investigative practice of tax-related cases developed in the Perm region of the Russian Federation, relevant statistical data provided by authorized state agencies. In addition, it is attempt to develop proposals to improve the legislation and practices taking into account international experience, including the United States.
Delimitations of the Study. This research consists of three parts. The first part covers peculiarities of reasons and bases of initiation tax-related cases and pre-investigation check of report of a crime. This section sets out the circumstances which is necessary for identification and study in order to formulate proceeding decisions. In the second part marked peculiarities of the object and the limits of proof in criminal cases of this category, also revealed the peculiarities of individual investigative actions, and, finally, questions of completion of preliminary investigation of tax-related crimes. In the third part of the paper the judicial and investigative practice is examined, significant omissions and deficiencies is identified taking into account we try to made proposals to reform the legislation and law enforcement practice.
Literature Review
Tax crimes are not a local problem. States all over the world face such problems as tax evasion, tax fraud, concealment of monetary resources. In this context, the issues of effective investigation of such crimes are the subject of numerous scientific studies in foreign legal systems. An analysis of foreign literature is allowed to assess the process of initiation and investigation of tax-related cases in Russia through the prism of international law and identify strengths and weaknesses, assess the effectiveness and, as a result, optimize the existing RF system in the investigation of this category of crime.
Causes for initiation of tax-related cases are popular subject of study among academic lawyers. William J. Lovett in article «Criminal Tax Investigations Start Long Before You Receive a Knock on the Door» notes that there are many reasons of initiating criminal proceedings. However, tax inspections are in the first place. Criminal case may be opened under information sent from other state agency such as FBI and Homeland Security. The system of interdepartmental collaboration is well-developed in the United States. As informer about illegal action may be employees of organizations, ex-spouses, friends, etc. Information about tax crimes can also be obtained from the media and from secret agents. 
At the present time in Russian Federation tax-relating cases also may be set up for any reasons. However early criminal proceeding may be instituted only by the materials directed by the tax authority. Professor Soloviev I. N. concluded that it gave negative effect in the process of fighting against tax crimes. In 2014 this limitation was lifted, but the most majority of tax violations are determined by tax authority. It is rarity when cases are instituted at the request of individuals or the media. 
In foreign science procedural matters of investigation of tax-related cases are widely covered. One of these researches is the analytical article «Tax fraud investigations» [Haynes, 2009] published by Professor Burton J. Haynes, long time he worked as IRS Special Agent. In addition, the analysis of investigation tax-related cases consistently presented in the monograph «Tax crimes» written by John A. Townsend, Larry A. Campagna, Steve Johnson and Scott A. Schumacher.
Based on the systemic analysis of these sources, it is possible to distinguish two models of investigation of tax-related cases in the USA. The first model is the "administrative investigation". The core of this model is the IRS Criminal Investigation Division as part of US Department of the Treasury. The administrative investigation conducted by special agents. They continuously monitor newspapers, magazines and the financial condition of enterprises in various sectors of the economy. As a results of the audit special agents it can be taken two decisions: the case may be returned to the IRS civil or collection for the further legal assessment or referred to the Department of justice Tax Division for criminal prosecution, which is the main body in the public prosecution. An important component of this stage is the Agent's opinion, which contains all obtained during the investigation evidence. If the investigation was carried out on the materials, directed by the results of the audit, the auditor provides support for the investigation. The essence of the second model is that the investigation of tax crimes carried out by Grand Jury. This model operates in the most demanding situations where you need to have a wide range of possibilities to take proof or you need reasonable time or to oppose the investigation process is. In this model, the case is sent to the IRS on to the Department of Justice, where authority to approve such requests has been delegated to the Deputy Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Section of the Tax Division. Then the criminal case is send to trial. It is noted that this system is effective and has a powerful preventive effect.
Thus, the models of investigation of tax-related cases in the USA differ significantly from the Russian model, although it is possible to identify some analogies. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure of RF, tax crimes refer to the jurisdiction of investigators of the Investigative Committee of Russia Federation. They fully realize the process of investigation, and then refer the case to the Prosecutor which carries out the public prosecution, and then the case is referred to the court. Earlier in the Russian Federation there was a specialized state agency – Federal Tax Police Service of the Russian Federation.
Thus, analysis of the sources revealed peculiarities of investigation of tax-related cases in the USA, compared these peculiarities with the existing Russian system and propose changes.
Methods
The methodological basis of the current research contains general scientific, private and special methods of cognition.
Formal legal technique is used to evaluate specific definitions of legal effects (such as evasion, concealment, proof, etc.) and the scientific views of on different processes and phenomena. It also can be useful to establish the perfection of the modern legal regulation.
The method of analysis is used in division of tax crimes investigation into separate stages and reviewing its features individually. The synthesis method, which is based on the research conclusions helps to figure out general recommendations on improving the legislation and legal practice. These methods are widely used in the compilation and analysis of judicial and investigation practices and in identification of typical violations and omissions.
The specifics of the study determine the importance of using the legal comparative method. It is obligatory for comparison editions of Russian legal acts and for comparison between legal regulation of tax crime investigation process in Russia and in the United States.
The great importance is pointed from a method of statistical analysis which allows us to estimate the structure of crime, to establish the dynamics registered tax crimes amounts and to evaluate the effectiveness of legislative changes in quantitative terms.
The mathematical method is used to calculate the percentage of the tax amounts in the total financial income amount in the budget, the damage caused by the commission of tax crimes, percentage of finished and discontinued tax cases in the total number of tax offenses.
System method is applied in the researching of tactics and sequences of investigation, their interdependence and interchangeability in the investigation of tax crime cases.
Prediction method allows to predetermine the future dynamics of growth or decline of tax crimes, suggests the positive effects of the proposed legislative changes, contained in the current research.
Results Anticipated
The study is expected to analyze the criminally-remedial characteristics of initiation and investigation of tax-related cases and to make recommendations for improvement of legislation and law enforcement practice. 
Firstly, determination of characteristics of criminal-tax cases will simplify and accelerate the process of pre-investigation, to determine the circumstances which we should establish to make final procedural decision. 
Secondly, the analysis of the evolution of the law will allow drawing a conclusion about the feasibility of their adoption, and whether they have a positive effect on law enforcement practice. 
Thirdly, determine the characteristics of the object and the limits of proof required for careful planning of the investigation of crimes, understanding the necessary space of investigative actions, interdepartmental interaction system and the time of the preliminary investigation. 
Fourthly, it is expected to develop a strategy and sequence of investigative actions to the timely receipt of all necessary evidence supporting the guilt of the subject of a crime. 
Fifthly, it is expected to reveal characteristics of the preliminary investigation to establish a list of evidence and the sequence of their presentation in the indictment. In addition, it is important to disclose the contents and characteristics of the new forms of termination of criminal proceedings - a court fine. 
Sixthly, it is supposed to reveal the violations and shortcomings that led to the cancellation of the procedural decisions, return of criminal cases for further investigation and acquittal and make recommendations to minimize these negative consequences in law enforcement and the elimination of the imperfections of the legal regulation.
Conclusion
In this paper we attempt a complex analysis of the features occurring at the stages of initiation and investigation of tax-related cases. According to the survey, there are some consistently stated features arising at the both stages of the audit reporting on tax crimes and in the primary and subsequent stages of the investigation. Also we studied law enforcement practice on the researched category of cases. The study represents scientifically based proposals for improvement of legal mechanisms of struggle with tax crimes and practical recommendations for participants in the tax crime investigation processes. They are expected to improve the quality of crime investigation and, as a result, reduce the number of criminal offenses in the area of taxation.


