This study is conducted to examine the institute of representation in civil litigation, to find out the classification of representation, to explore a number of issues at the institute of representation. The anticipated deliverable of the study is to achieve the above objectives, and to identify solutions of problems of the institute of representation. Thus, we will offer possible solutions to the problems which will be identified. The methodological foundation of the study is to apply the method of analysis, synthesis, comparison and classification method. Thus, if we will based on the comparison method we will be able to analyze  representation in civil and criminal trial. The work consists of introduction, three chapters, each of which includes two paragraphs, conclusion and references. 
Introduction
Background. The institute of representation is known not only civil procedural law, but also other branches of law, in particular in civil law. Many provisions of the Civil Procedural Code of the Russian Federation repeated the Civil Code. In the Civil Procedural Code of the Russian Federation establishes that agency a jural relationship in which one person (the representative) on behalf of another person (	the represent) in his interests and carries on his behalf on the basis of powers granted to him procedural actions aimed at protecting the rights and creating submitted for certain rights and responsibilities. The essentiality of the institute of representation is evident and had never in doubt, but now there are many discussions about the abrogation of the institute. Therefore, it is considered necessary to more thoroughly investigate the institute of representation, to identify problems and find solutions. 
In addition, many questions concerning the institute of representation, have not been studied in full. For example, the concept of "authority" of the representative and the concept of "procedural rights and obligations" of the representative identified in the scientific literature.
Problem Statement. The basic concern of this investigation is to examine the institute of representation and to determine its relevance in today's Russia. To achieve this goal it is necessary to perform a number of tasks:
1) to define the concept of "representation";
2) to consider the classification of representation;
3) to find out the issues concerned with the institute of representation;
4) to come up with the decision of the identified issues.
Professional Significance. Many Russian scholars and foreign scholars have studied the institute of representation in civil litigation. American scholars, Chinese scholars and other have conducted numerous investigations on the subject. Nevertheless, the relevance of this topic is undeniable because the legislation of the majority of countries is constantly changing, MPs are making a lot of amendments to laws. Therefore, it is necessary to develop our skills in this area. In addition, it should be notice that the most of the investigations of foreign scientists have been written in the 20th century. In this regard, the professional significance of this study consists in the fact that the institute of representation is constantly developing. In addition, there are problems connected with the institute, the problem a theoretical (a conceptual apparatus) and a practical nature.
Delimitations of the Study. The main direction of the research is to study of the institute of representation, to identify the problems connected with the institute, and to search for possible solutions to the identified problems. It is not possible to achieve the objectives of the study without the relevant literature, scientific articles of scientists, specializing in civil law and civil procedural law.
Literature Review
There are many scientific articles of Russian scientists about the institute of representation in civil litigation such as Ivankin V.N., Vilisov A.V., Panchenko V.U/, Bogomolov M.V., Tengizova J.A., but I want to tell about only two works by Russian scientists. The first scientific article was written by Tengizova J.A. and is called "The legal nature, the essence and significance the institute of representation in civil litigation". In this article, the author says that the attention to the study of the institute governed by objective and subjective reasons. For objective reasons, the author considers the growing role of law in the regulation of civil turnover, arising in the course of his relations and resolution of conflicts between the parties; to achieve by society a certain level of culture and civilization. The subjective reasons, the author considers the need to entrust another person fulfillment of legally significant actions in the interests of the principal (the guarantor); special confidence confidential relations developing between the principal and the representative in the implementation of the last of their professional duties; moral and legal responsibility of the representative of the quality and effectiveness of customer provided legal assistance. The subjective reasons, the author considers the need to entrust another person fulfillment of legally significant actions in the interests of the principal (the guarantor); a special confidential relations developing between the principal and the representative in the implementation of the last of their professional duties; moral and legal responsibility of the representative of the quality and efficiency of provided legal aid. In the conclusion of this scientific article the author comes to the conclusion that the institute of representation is an important procedural guarantee of the person in civil proceedings, which allows participants, on the one hand, to entrust representation person chosen by them, and on the other hand, to demand from the representative of committing all the measures stipulated by law and the using of specified therein funds in order to protect the client's interests. 
After studying this article, I conclude that the author considers that the institute of representation is important in contemporary Russia, it emphasizes the relevance of this study.
In a scientific article called "The institute of representation in modern civil and arbitration litigation" Bogomolov M.V. considers one of the problems of the institute of representation and offers a possible embodiment to resolve the identified problem. He says that the procedural law of the Russian Federation requires special attention on the issue of the transformation. The author considers that this is due mainly to the increasing complexity of civil turnover and significant growth of the economy, and the objective necessity of constant improvement of the level of legal culture of society as a whole. He notes that special attention should be given to the institute of legal representation, because it aims to ensure the proper implementation of the general principles under these conditions. He comes to the conclusion that one of the main problems of the institute is the fact that the activities of the representatives often implemented by persons without sufficient knowledge and skills in this area. In this regard, he believes that it is necessary to limit the circle of persons who may permitted to carry out this type of activity. Further, he cites an article of the Civil Procedure Code that anyone fully capable person can be the representative in the civil process. He does not agree to this provision, because in his opinion, the participation of a qualified representative to a particular procedural often determines the outcome of the trial. Further, the author proposes a way to solve this problem. Further, the author proposes a way to solve this problem. He believes that the solution to this problem is the introduction of the principle of "procedural and representational activities provided on a professional basis, when considering the category of cases with a high social value." In addition, it proposes to introduce a special admission system for practice sessions procedural representation in a professional manner, which will be the main criterion for the mandatory presence of a person of intermediate or higher professional education. Finally, he concludes that it is necessary to develop a special course of an additional training in the field of procedural representation.
Besides Russian scientists, scholars from other countries doing research. For example, a scientific article written by Murray L. Schwartz, which is called «The Zeal of the Civil Advocate». In this article, the author raises the question of the accountability of the civil advocate for results obtained for a client. He says that it distinguishes the criminal trial by arguing that for effective implementation the adversary system, as it is commonly understood, requires that the professional advocates be equally competent and equally adversary and that because it does not meet these criteria, the criminal trial cannot be looked to as a model either of the adversary system or of the behavior of advocates in the civil trial. Rules of behavior for the civil litigator should be drawn with the primary objective of ascertaining truth. Moreover, the civil litigator cannot claim immunity from moral accountability by reference to the lawyer's role; he or she is personally accountable for an immoral result obtained for a client. Seeking to avoid this accountability all lawyers might reject an immoral but lawful cause, so that persons with such causes would be deprived of professional representation. In his article, he reveals the contents of the two principles: the Principle of Professionalism è the Principle of Nonaccountability. He says that the Principle of Professionalism is when acting as an advocate, a lawyer must, within the established upon professional behavior, maximize the likelihood that the prevail. The Principle of Nonaccountability is when acting as an advocate for a client according to the Principle of Professionalism, a lawyer is neither legally, professionally, nor morally accountable for the means used or the ends achieved. Furthermore, he talks about The Postulates of the Adversary System. The author believes that a dispute exists when two (or more) parties disagree, that is, each party believes it should prevail and the other party should not. When they can not resolve that disagreement by themselves, it is remitted (either voluntarily or involuntarily) to a third party. He identifies two postulates: The Postulate of Equal Competence and The Postulate of Equal Adversariness. The Postulate of Equal Competence is a kind of rule that members should be equal in ability to carry out their activities, to keep the adversarial principle. The Postulate of Equal Adversariness this rule that the opposing advocates should also be roughly equal in their dedication to the cause of their principals. 
In addition, another American scientist Howard Schweber in his scientific article «The Measure of Equality: A Right to Counsel» explores the theme of representation in the judicial process. He says that everyone has a guaranteed right to protect their legitimate rights and interests in court proceedings, regardless of whether he is a defendant or plaintiff, and that it must be paid for by the state. He also emphasizes that lawyers in criminal courts are necessities, not luxuries. In an adversary system the presence and quality of representation is as much a determinant of the fairness of proceedings as are neutral rules and unbiased magistrates. In addition, the author says that the courts have found that certain kinds of civil proceedings are of a nature sufficiently similar to a criminal trial to require the provision of counsel even where competence is not an issue. He is convinced that a representative in civil proceedings has the same significance as a lawyer in criminal proceedings. He says that parties to litigation ought to be provided with counsel when their interests would otherwise be left entirely without representation. Further, he notes that the modern times, it is routine for courts to appoint counsel to appear behalf of children, mentally incompetent persons, and others who, is feared, will be unable to represent their own interests. The author calls such cases special. In addition, he argues that the state should ensure the right of everyone to judicial protection, but the state does not. Because of that only the people from the richest strata of the population can take advantage of the services of representatives. The author also believes that it is necessary to increase the number of lawyers, then they will be available for more people. 
Methods
The methodological basis of the study is to apply the method of analysis, synthesis, comparison and classification method. Thus, using the method of analysis to be determined the concept of representation in civil proceedings, to investigate the components of this institute. Based on the method of synthesis of all components of the representation in civil proceedings will be merged into a single unit, and the institute of representation will be considered in general as a phenomenon of the law or the public. Thus, based on a comparison of the method carried out an analysis of representation in civil and criminal trial. Also, using this method, we compare kinds of representation in civil proceedings such as legal representation, representation by court appointment, contractual (voluntary) office. And based on the method of classification highlighted above types of representation in civil proceedings. We also use the survey method to identify what percentage of citizens using services representatives, the percentage of citizens do not use the services of representatives. In addition, we are using the method of interview revealed the reasons due to which people do not want or can not use the services of representatives of: expensive, impractical, private education in matters of civil law.
Results Anticipated
We are confident that the overall objective will be achieved at the end of our investigation, we have identified. We can study the institute of representation and determine its relevance in today's Russia. Also we will identify a number of problems related with the institute of representation in civil litigation and can offer solutions to the identified problems. 
Studied scientific papers show that the problems in the institution are necessary and seek solutions to these problems. For example, the problem of unavailability of services to representatives of all segments of the population. Studied scientific articles show that the problem in this institute are available. And we need to find ways to solve these problems. For example, the problem of unavailability of representatives for all segments of the population. This problem is and we need to find a solution that will satisfy the majority of stakeholders: the government, the rich strata of the population, the poor and the representatives themselves. As everyone knows, it is often difficult to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone, in any case, someone will be dissatisfied. 
In addition, some scientists believe that the institute of representation should be abolished, but based on the scientific articles that have been studied, we conclude that the institute of representation should not be abolished, and should be reformed.
Conclusion
As a result of our study we examined the institute of representation, all of its component parts, types of representation in civil proceedings, identified a number of problems related to the institute of representation. In addition, we proposed possible solutions to the identified problems. Their applicability to modern life depends largely on the willingness of the state and society to reform the institute of representation as a whole, and the institute of representation in civil litigation. 


