Introduction
Background. The problem of the division of the common property of spouses is considered one of the most pressing problems in the family law of the Russian Federation. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. 
Problem Statement. The research problem can be formulated as follows: The division of the common property of the spouses represents the termination of the right of common joint ownership of the property acquired during the marriage and the occurrence of each of the spouses as a result of the division of the right of ownership to the indicated property, while the spouses cannot agree independently which of them will receive. This all determines the purpose of the study. The aim of the study is a comprehensive analysis of the institute of the division of the common property of the spouses, which will help to find a solution to the problems identified during the study.
In accordance with the purpose of the study, the following tasks were set:
- analysis of the legal categories “division of the common property of spouses”; “Property of spouses to be divided”;
- a description of the ways of dividing common property: voluntary (by concluding an agreement or a marriage contract) and judicial;
- study of the characteristics of the section of certain types of property and obligations;
- identifying the problems of legal regulation of relations within the framework of the subject under study and suggesting ways to solve the identified deficiencies in legal regulation.
Delimitations of the Study. The study focuses on the nature of the division of common property by spouses and its elements, which allow to regulate and simplify the given process. In addition, there are discrepancies in the legal regulation of the division of certain types of property and obligations; From the materials of judicial practice it clearly follows that the existing shortcomings in the legal regulation of the division of property of spouses lead to abuses by unscrupulous spouses, illegal actions that violate the rights and interests of the other spouse and / or third parties.
Professional Significanceю. One of the objectives of this study is to analyze the legal categories of “division of the common property of spouses”; "Property of the spouses to be divided." This will allow to identify the newly introduced norms in the laws on the regulation of the division of the common property of the spouses. As relations in society are developing, there are more and more types of property and more problems in its division, there is a need for changes in the legislation. According to judicial statistics, in the first half of 2019 alone, more than 19,500 lawsuits were filed with the courts of general jurisdiction regarding the division of the common property of spouses. The total price of claims amounted to 26,710,674,909 rubles. The above indicates the prevalence of this category of cases and the significance of the amounts that the courts award to the parties to the disputes (in monetary and other terms). Thus, the professional significance of the study will be expressed in the analysis of new legislative norms, since the available scientific sources are published without taking into account the planned changes in the legislation, and after the latter comes into force, they will lose their relevance in some part.
Literature Review
Many years of experience in considering and resolving cases by the courts of the Russian Federation on the division of common property of spouses is summarized in extensive scientific sources. However, to date, there are practically no studies devoted to a comprehensive analysis of the theory and practice of the division of property and obligations of spouses as a whole, as well as certain types of property and obligations. In addition, the available scientific research, in our opinion, does not take into account the latest changes in the civil legislation of the Russian Federation and the latest material in judicial practice.
When writing a work, it is planned to rely on the following groups of sources:
1) Normative legal acts of the Russian Federation (first of all, the Family Code of the Russian Federation, the Legislation of the Russian Federation “On Notaries”, etc.)
2) Scientific sources, including Russian and foreign (monographs, scientific articles in peer-reviewed journals 2016-2020, dissertation research, scientific and scientific-practical comments on laws and codes).
3) Judicial practice materials (acts of the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation and the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, materials of individual court cases).
Among scientific sources, the following monographs, dissertations, and scientific articles should be distinguished.
Strazhevich, Yu.N. in his study touched on the disposal of shares in the authorized capital of a company that is jointly owned by the spouses. The article is devoted to the study of the correlation of interests of spouses, when one of them is a nominal participant in the LLC, and the other does not. Moreover, the author’s attention is drawn to the situation when the disposal of shares, which are the common property of these spouses, takes place. Of great interest is the author’s attention to law enforcement practice on this issue, the legal position of Yu. N. Strazhevich on the ratio of corporate and family law of the Russian Federation. For example, in the work, the author indicates the following: “the share in the authorized capital of a limited liability company has a dual legal nature, which is similar to the legal nature of an uncertificated security, which is a property right, which in turn is recognized by art. 128 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation property. " It should also be agreed with the conclusions that “for the spouse-participant, the property component is a consequence of his adoption of managerial decisions in relation to society and is not as important as the right to make these decisions. The second spouse, who is not a member of the LLC, is not interested in managing the corporation. The first question for him is the question of the extent to which a spousal asset in the form of a share in the authorized capital of an LLC generates income and how much it costs, that is, the property component of the share has value for it. ” An analysis of the dynamics of the legislation on notaries in the field of certification of transactions with a share (part of a share) in the charter capital of a LLC from the position of their influence on family law governing the management of common property of spouses allowed the author of the article to come to the reasonable conclusion that “changes in corporate law, requiring notarization of transactions with shares (part of the share) in the authorized capital of the LLC, have led to the fact that at present the rights of the spouse who is not a participant in the LLC are protected from abuse in the form "deliberate withdrawal of a marital asset in the form of a share (part of a share) by a spouse-participant of the company."
Bogdanova E.E. considered controversial issues of the division of property of spouses. In the article, the author explores the problems of the separation of certain types of common property of spouses: pledged residential premises, the features of the division of shares in the authorized capital of companies, etc. In this work, Bogdanova E.E. also analyzes the procedure and specifics of the contractual regime of property of spouses. As a result, the author comes to the important conclusion that “in the event of a significant disproportionality of the family law contract (for example, if one of the spouses transfers a significant part of the common property by virtue of the marriage contract, with the other spouse participating equally in the formation of this property, and the other spouse receives a small part of property or debts) it is possible to apply art. 1, 10 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, which do not allow a party to the contract to benefit from its unfair behavior. ”
Trush J.S. in her work, she considered the features of the exercise and termination of property rights of spouses. The study of the division of the common property of spouses is impossible without studying the problem of disposing of common property. Trush J.S. rightly indicates that “the notion of a spouse’s consent to dispose of the joint property of the spouses as a volitional act represents a failure of a unilateral family-property transaction of a personal trust nature made by the other spouse and aimed at establishing, amending or terminating legal relations with third parties regarding the common property of the spouses and ( or) the property of the other spouse. Issuance of a spouse's notarized consent to dispose of all property specified in paragraph 3 of Art. 35 CK of the Russian Federation without specifying a specific property is unlawful, since it contradicts the principle of the exercise of the right of property of spouses by mutual consent. " It is also worth noting the author’s rather controversial position on the establishment of a period for preserving the commonality of property after the preservation of marriage (1 year from the date of marriage termination) and the establishment of a limitation period for requirements on the division of common property: also one year from the date of marriage termination.
Rastorgueva A.A. in his research, he analyzes the rights of spouses to intellectual property created and acquired during the marriage period and their material carriers. Determining the results of intellectual activity that have an inextricable connection with the personality of the author, Rastorgueva A.A. relates such a result to personal property. At the same time, in the dissertation, the author suggests taking into account the degree of participation of the family’s total income in the creation of RIA, and considers it necessary to give the second spouse the right to receive part of the income from the use of RIA, “including in the case of marriage termination, but without the right to permit or prohibit the use of such a result unless otherwise provided by the agreement with the author ”. Examining questions about the division of property, which includes exclusive rights, the author comes to a number of conclusions, among which the following is of particular interest: in the case when the RID is created by only one of the spouses, it is the author who acquires the rights to the result of intellectual activity. And the joint property of the spouses will be the right to a tangible medium in which this result is expressed.
Slepko G.E., and Strazhevich Yu.N., jointly considered the legal regulation of property relations of spouses. The monograph is a comprehensive study of the property relations of family members, including spouses and former spouses, according to the division of common property, as well as alimony relations of spouses and former spouses, both according to Russian family law and foreign, taking into account the peculiarities of various legal systems. When writing the WRC, of ​​particular interest is chapter 1 of this work, “Relations of spouses (former spouses) regarding property under Russian family law”. In this chapter, the authors consider the following issues: types of property relations of spouses; legal regime of spouses' property; contractual regime of spouses' property; division of property of spouses; liability of spouses for obligations. This monograph is of theoretical importance for the study of controversial issues regarding the division of property of spouses, since it highlights the disputes existing in the science of family and civil law. It should also be noted that when writing WRC, it is planned to be based on the logic of the author of the monograph in the presentation of the material.
Zhang E. M. reviewed Analysis of the legal issues related to the division of property in a divorce agreement. The article provides an analysis of the institution of the division of the common property of spouses under the laws of the People’s Republic of China. In particular, the special legal nature of the agreement on the division of property, which must necessarily be completed as part of the agreement on divorce (divorce), is indicated. E. Zhang notes that such an agreement is voluntary and is concluded at the will of both parties, “legally binds” the parties, being binding on them during marriage and after its dissolution. In the work, the author also analyzes the practice of appealing property sharing agreements.
It is worth highlighting Bill No. 835938-7 "On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation (regarding the property relations of spouses)." At present, the State Duma of the Russian Federation is considering a bill that will keyly change many of the norms of the Family Code of the Russian Federation on the division of common property of spouses. Firstly, the bill proposes to introduce the concept of common property of spouses as a single whole, an object that can and should be the subject of a single trial. Today, according to the law, the property of spouses is not considered as a whole, but as a collection of objects. Secondly, according to the bill, transactions on the alienation of common property without the consent of the second spouse will be the basis for reducing the size of the share in the common property due to the spouse who has dishonestly disposed of the common property. This amendment is intended to protect the interests of a bona fide spouse and third parties, as it relieves of the obligation to prove unfair behavior of property purchasers. Thirdly, the bill limits the practice of appealing prenuptial agreements. Fourthly, it is planned to amend the bankruptcy law in terms of regulating the procedure for the division of spouses' property in the event of bankruptcy of one of them. Fifth, it is planned to introduce norms on state registration of joint property of spouses, both at the request of one of them and at the initiative of the state registrar. When writing our project, it is planned to use the materials submitted to the State Duma of the Russian Federation, and if these changes are adopted, the new edition of the legal acts will be used when writing the work (regardless of the entry into force of the changes).
Methods
The methods and methods used by the author of the research include general scientific research methods: dialectics, metaphysics, analysis, synthesis, induction, deduction, a systematic approach method, and others.
Among the general methods, it is necessary to distinguish dialectics. It is the dialectical approach that will allow comprehensively fully and independently to explore the institution of the division of the common property of the spouses. The use of this method will be based on the methods of analysis, synthesis, induction and deduction. Also, the most important general research method is the system analysis method.
Since the general methods alone cannot reveal the features of the studied legal phenomena, special methods will also be used in the work, especially the special legal method, that is, the formal legal research method. Formal legal method (normative dogmatic). It will allow you to study the basic legal concepts “in pure form”: common property, division of property, agreement on the division of property of spouses, prenuptial agreement, general obligations and others. These concepts will be analyzed as such, without any connection, for example, with morality, economics and culture. It is the formal interpretation of the norms of the law governing the investigated legal relations that will allow the most complete and correct interpretation of the content of the institution of the division of the common property of spouses.
When writing the work, it is planned to use the following private scientific methods. Comparative legal method. This method will be used to compare different methods for the division of spouses 'property (voluntary and in court), as well as in analyzing the characteristics of the division of certain types of spouses' property. In addition, during the study, the author plans to make a comparative analysis of law enforcement practice on the issues being investigated. It is also planned to use a specific sociological method. Since the issues under study are widespread in public life, the work will take into account social facts and processes that affect the dynamics of legislation on the division of property and judicial practice in this category of cases.
In order to define the concept of “division of common property” and other key categories of WRC, it is also planned to use a semantic approach. The relevance of using the methods of linguistics in the study of legal categories is due to the fact that there are significant differences between the legal interpretation and the dictionary interpretation of legal categories. The combination of these methods will make it possible to comprehensively approach the solution of the tasks and obtain the results of work of theoretical and practical importance.
Results Anticipated
Fulfillment of the goals and objectives of the study will allow for a comprehensive analysis of the institution of the division of the common property of spouses according to the legislation of the Russian Federation.
Firstly, the result of the study will be an analysis of the legal categories “division of the common property of spouses”; “Property of spouses to be divided”, etc., as well as the principles of the division of property under the laws of the Russian Federation.
Secondly, a description will be given of the methods for sharing common property: voluntary (by concluding an agreement or prenuptial agreement) and judicial.
Thirdly, a study will be made of the characteristics of the division of certain types of property and obligations.
Finally, the results of the study include identifying the problems of legal regulation of relations within the framework of the subject under study and suggesting ways to solve the identified shortcomings of legal regulation.
In the course of work, attention will be paid not only to the legal regulation of these issues, but also to materials of law enforcement practice, including the practice of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, Perm Regional Court and other courts. In particular, it is planned to investigate previously unexplored materials of judicial practice in specific cases.
The author’s appeal to amendments to the current legislation and analysis of Bill No. 835938-7 "On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation (in Part of Spouses' Property Relations)" will be of great importance.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the following conclusions can be made. Due to the significant number of disputes about the division of the common property of spouses, the complexity of the composition of the common property, the incompleteness of the deficiencies in the legal regulation of the institution under study, a comprehensive analysis of the institution of the division of the common property of the spouses is relevant and has both theoretical and practical significance.
Currently, it is planned to introduce into legal circulation the category of common property of spouses as a single massif, and not as a number of separate objects. In this regard, the content of other concepts is also subject to revision: division of common property, procedure for division of property, and others. An analysis of the principles of the division of property in Russia revealed differences in the rules for the division of common property in the Russian Federation and other states. For example, it has been established that our country does not apply the principle of “fair partition”, which is characteristic, for example, of the laws of some states within the United States (Virginia Law, Thomson Reuters business). The predominantly voluntary nature of the division of the common property is accompanied by the conclusion between the spouses of a prenuptial agreement or agreement on the division of the common property. These agreements are largely similar, but the differences between them are significant and it is extremely important if the spouses consent to the division of property, choose the right way to fix the agreements reached. In the study of questions about the division of common property, both voluntarily and in court, the importance of taking into account the rights and interests of the spouse’s creditors was also established, as well as the particularities of the division of property of spouses in the event of bankruptcy of any of them. It was also found that disputes regarding the division of spouses' property are resolved differently by courts, despite the existence of a generalized practice of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation in the Resolution of the Plenum of the Supreme Court No. 15 of 11/05/1998. In particular, difficulties and contradictions arise when considering cases on the division of property that does not have physical expression: corporate rights and rights to the results of intellectual activity.
The study revealed contradictions between family and corporate legislation, as a result of which the division of a share in the authorized capital of a legal entity can lead to a decrease in the real value of this property and infringe on the interests of the organization, as well as the nominal owner of the share. 
In conclusion, it is worth noting that the planned changes in family law in terms of property relations of spouses, in our opinion, will have a positive impact on law enforcement practice in cases of sharing the common property of spouses, will clarify the content of key legal categories and eliminate contradictions between civil and family law in this part.
