Introduction
Background. The problem of imperfection of modern state apparatuses is considered to be one of the most controversial legal issues in the modern world. The issue mentioned was examined in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. Nevertheless, there is an aspect of international public law, that makes the concept of separation of powers stand out among other legal matters, is that there is a small quantity of such researches in the field of comparative law. This is a fact of primary importance because modern legal studies have special appreciation for comparative law approaches that help to discover new facets of the separation of powers’ concept and to find out reasons of differences in structures of public authorities in various governments. The concept of separation of powers has been widely examined over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comparative law approach that could put all the diverse accounts of this concept into the context of public international law, highlighting legal families' and government forms' specific features.
Problem Statement. The problem that the study aims to solve is that there are considerable differences in the organization of state structures in countries with various forms of governance within different legal families.
The study focuses on analyzing the models of public authorities in countries of different legal families, as well as highlighting the features and problems of their functioning. The specific objectives of further analysis in relation to government administration must necessarily be those of:
1. to study the development of the separation of powers' principle from the theoretical concept to the constitutional principle being implemented in practice;
2. to analyze the legal nature of the state apparatus;
3. to reveal the general and special features in the organization and functioning of state apparatuses in Romano-German, Anglo-Saxon and religious legal families.
4. to reveal features and problems of the government bodies' functioning in the Russian Federation and search for solutions to them.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the nature of government administration and existing issues of division of powers between public bodies of legislative, executive and judicial branches that do not allow to run the state in the most effective way. As a rule, countries having different legal systems and government forms have their own various approaches to the separation of powers' concept. This determines some difficulties in revealing the most effective legal system in accordance to the principle of separation of powers being practiced. The study findings will be limited by the analysis of the legal rules establishing and regulating the functioning of public authorities in the countries concerned, law enforcement practices, as well as published research papers on the topic connected to this one.
Professional Significance. The problem under examination can be an object of paramount interest mainly for student studying law disciplines, various scholars and lawyers who investigate different issues connected to government administration in the field of comparative law or the influence of public bodies' activities on social system in the country. Since the issue considered is of primary legal and social concern, the research findings are an utmost priority for all those who are interested in international public and constitutional law studies, as well as law-making and law enforcement activities including jurists, civil servants, and government officials.
Literature Review
The research is based on scientific and educational literature, articles in Russian and foreign periodicals, as well as national, international and foreign legal acts. The basis for the theoretical study of the system of public authorities was established in the publications of J. Locke, S. Montesquieu, J. Adams, A. Hamilton, T. Jefferson, who investigated the separation of powers' concept and its implementation in practice.
Nowadays, there is a great number of Russian and foreign scholars who have researches in the field of public administration. 
The issue of existing problems in the implementation of public power was studied by such legal scholars as Avakyan, Sheverdyaev, Kenenova, Starostina, Kovler, Arbuzkin, Peshin, Shustrov, and Troitskaya, who published two collective monographs named "Contemporary problems of organization of public authority" and "The organization of governmental power in Russia and foreign countries" in 2014.
The monograph "Contemporary problems of organization of public authority" contains detailed information about the fundamental constitutional regulation of public authorities in the Russian Federation, current problems of the public bodies' functioning and solutions to them. The authors emphasize that there are only three possible ways of solving current problems in the field of public administration that are following: amendment of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, enhancement of other sources of constitutional law and adjustment of law enforcement practice, particularly the practice of constitutional justice.
The monograph "The organization of governmental power in Russia and foreign countries" is devoted to the analysis of advantages of the modern model of government administration and the principle of separation of powers in different countries, such as Russia, USA, Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland, France, Italy, Spain, Poland, China and India. The authors conclude that the existing differences between the models of public administration in countries considered depend on political, economic and social peculiarities of state formation.
A.A. Ryabzin, exploring the issues of the judicial branch, deduces that the judicial power in any country has its own peculiarities of organization and functioning, determined by a number of factors, such as specific historical way of the state development, features of public authorities' activity and, finally, constitutional system established. In addition, he highlights that it is not necessary to be focused only on the states' history due to the fact that the judicial system is developing, that is why it is more significant to forecast possible changes in this field in order to enable implementation of society's rights and freedoms in the future.
A.A. Kerimov’s research shows that there is a general trend for modern countries is making the principle of parliamentary responsibility weaker while the executive branch is reinforced. V.E. Chirkin notes that there is an increasing tendency in the modern world to creating hybrid forms of state administration. Thus, he believes that a mixed-type republic is the most preferable for parliamentarism, however, each form is imperfect in different ways and results of parliamentary institute's activities depends on specific historical, political, socio-economic conditions in a certain state.
S.N. Stanskikh, studying existing approaches to the definition of the separation of powers' principle, indicates that this phenomenon is difficult to disclose comprehensively by a common definition. The author is surprised that the existing principle of separation of powers in most developed countries needs to be modernized due to obsolescence and inability to meet modern people demands.
Nick Thijs, Gerhard Hammerschmid, and Enora Palaric carried out quantitative and qualitative analysis to understand and reach conclusions on formal and informal institutional systems, capacity, performance and governance in the field of public administration within the European Union. It is highlighted that there is a rather even distribution of consensual, intermediate and majoritarian systems of executive bodies in the EU Member States. Moreover, consensual systems are pointed out to increase the legal success of reforms and the reason for this is that they are understood to have been emerged from a broad consensus.
The issue of hybridization of constitutional forms was examined by J.A. Cheibub, Z. Elkins, and T. Ginsburg. The authors have carried out an extensive study on whether the existing classification of government forms allow to "predict" what powers the executive and legislative bodies may have. The authors believe that in order to predict the content of a constitution in regulating the powers of public bodies, it is better to know the region or age in which a constitution was written than to know whether it was presidential or parliamentary oriented.
Martha A. Field’s study devoted to the federalisms of Canada and The United States contains specific features of the structure of public authorities in countries within the same legal family. Field emphasizes that the system of public authorities, the division of power between legislative, executive and judicial bodies may be different even within the same legal family. Therefore, the existing differences in the system of public authorities in various countries should be analyzed not only in regard to the legal family the country belongs to, but to cultural, political and historical peculiarities of the state development.
According to the Constitution Act of Canada dating back to 1867, in Canada, there is a principle of separation of powers constitutionally established and applied in practice. The Queen of Great Britain is both the head of the state and the head of the executive branch. Legislative power is exercised by the Canadian Parliament, which consists of two houses, the Senate and the House of Commons, including the Queen, who is formally replaced by the Governor General. Executive power is exercised by a collegial body, the Council cabinet. The highest judicial government body in Canada is the Supreme Court of Canada, established in 1875. It is the final court of appeal and has jurisdiction in the field of constitutional law.
The Constitution of the Russian Federation establishes the system of government bodies in accordance to the principle of the separation of powers. In the Russian Federation there is legislative power aimed at the elaboration and adoption of laws, the formation of a regulatory framework for the functioning of other government bodies, and an influencing on the formation of executive and judicial bodies; executive power that is responsible for the execution of instructions and the enforcement of laws, and also for influencing the law-making process; and judicial power that is competent for the administration of justice. The legislative body of the Russian Federation is the Federal Assembly – the Parliament of the Russian Federation. According to the Constitution and the federal constitutional law dated back to 17.12.1997 № 2-FKZ the Government is the body providing the implementation of definite legal acts. Judicial power in the Russian Federation is exercised only by the court through four types of legal proceedings: constitutional, civil, administrative and criminal.
Methods
For examination of the problem of division of powers between legislative, executive and judicial branches in different law systems, various number of scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical that allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating powers of state authorities, as well as to predict its further development in the field of constitutional law. The historical method will be used to study the preconditions for the formation of modern constitutional systems' models. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of public authorities, and to identify the legal mechanisms of law enforcement in this area. The comparative law method helps to make a qualitative comparison of legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of organization and functioning of state authorities in the countries of Romano-Germanic, Anglo-Saxon and religious legal families in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will allow to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of public bodies, to interpret them and clarify the meaning of legal concept used in the field of government administration.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works connected to the problem of division of powers between legislative, executive and judicial branches in Russia and the data on the principle of separation of powers in other countries show that there will be several results. The analyses of researches on the topic connected to this one reveals that it is vital to determine the place of the President in the system of separation of powers. Moreover, there is appoint of view that there is “super-presidential” power in Russia. It means that the reality does not comply with the law. Specialists regard it as a historical phenomenon, but we are convinced it is a violation of law. We infer that the problem of division of powers may be solved after the powers change. This gives the perspective of the government consistent with the law. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline outcomes in the field of legal practice. It shows that in other countries there are less problems in governance. The results support the idea that Russian government should take into account an experience of reforming public bodies’ structure in foreign countries.
Conclusion
It follows from what has been discussed that there is a significant number of issues connected to the division of power between three branches existed.  This question has been discussed in various researches by Russian and foreign scholars.  Undoubtedly the contribution of lawyers, such as J. Locke, S. Montesquieu, Avakyan, cannot be questioned, but yet comprehensive examination of this phenomenon based on the comparative law approach is necessary. 
All this determines the solution of the problem concerned plays a fundamental role in the country’s political system. We hope this research will contribute to improving the Russian political and social system.
