This research is conducted in order to show the importance of trademarks as the objects of intellectual property. Since the modernization of the 4th part of The Civil Code of Russian Federation, the quantity of questions of the place and the role of trademarks increased, what has shown that the sphere of Intellectual property, despite the modification, is not protected as much as it should be. The expected aim is to show the significance of trademarks in Russian Federation in comparison with foreign countries. In this research the comparison is expected to be carried out between Russian and American Law systems intellectual rights, especially trademarks. 
Introduction.
Background.
During changes of people’s lives, they face the phenomenon of modernization of jurisdictions. It is absolutely a common process, that norms follow the dynamic development of the society, they adopt to the changing conditions. So, it is naturally that there are sometimes some problems, connected with the gaps in the law. It means, that some relations between parties may not be regulated under the law because this norms just don`t exist. Despite the fact, that it is a natural phenomenon, we should modern and change our legislation, consider and analyze foreign standards to protect all spheres of law. 
The problem of insufficiency of legal regulation of trademarks has been widely investigated over the last few years, since there were changes in the Civil Code of Russian Federation in 2008. However, previous researches didn`t cover all the aspects of the existents of such objects of Intellectual Rights in Russian Federation. It is also still untouched and not highlighted in comparison with different legal systems.
Problem statement. 
The aforesaid considerations raise a general research problem, which is necessary to solve: in what way should the development of law regulation of trademarks be provided?
Thus, these are research tasks to fulfill to achieve the proposed target:
1. Analyze the concept of trademarks, compare different approaches of the definition;
2. Determine the influence of foreign legislation on Russian Law about Intellectual Rights and trademarks in particular;
3. Emphasize the importance of the existence of trademarks. 
Professional Significance.
The sphere of Intellectual Rights is the sphere of future, the sphere of rapidly developing relations between parties. If 20 or even 10 years ago Intellectual Rights were the phenomenon to ignore and to avoid, nowadays it became a significant and a complex institute. So now it is important for the legislator to pay special attention on the development of legislation of trademarks in Russian Federation.
Delimitations of the study. 
The research is aimed on the present position of the sphere of Intellectual Rights and the future predictions and submissions of the place and the role of trademarks. The study also compares current revisions of the civil code and invalid revisions, which functioned until the modernization in 2008.
Literature Review.
The issue under question of the future place and the role of trademarks plays an important role in modern science. There are quite a lot of foreign monographs and researches on Intellectual Rights in common. Trademarks are only a part of the scientist’s studies. They usually compare different types of Intellectual Property, find some common features, make predictions, analyze changes in law protection of trademarks.
Trademark according to the Civil Code is the designation serving for individualizing goods of legal entities or individual entrepreneurs, recognized the exclusive right certified by a trademark certificate.. It is the official definition of trademark, provided by legislator. Nevertheless, many authors in their researches represent their own definition of this concept. For instance, according to Introduction to Intellectual Property, Theory and Practice, «a trademark is any sign that individualizes the goods of a given enterprise and distinguishes them from the goods of its competitors». Other words, it means that the main goals of the trademarks are to indicate the origin and show the differences between similar products. With the help of trademarks businesses may individualize their goods In my research I compare different definitions of trademark between the concept, fixed in the Civil Code.
Nowadays, practically all spheres in our lives use trademarks. «Trademarks started to play an important role with industrialization, and they have since become the key factor in the modern world of international trade and market-oriented economies». We also face this phenomenon every day when we go shopping, for example. 
One of the most fundamental research is the publication «Introduction to Intellectual Property, Theory and Practice». Despite the fact it was published in 1997, it is still topical. The study covers theoretical and practice questions, expands the concept of trademarks, deals with the history of trademarks from ancient times, represents the significance of trademarks in modern industrialized world. 
There is much information about requirement of distinctiveness, which are still now used as the theoretic fundament. It indicates such requirements as:
* «Genetic Terms
* Descriptive signs
* Reference to geographical origin and so on».
The aim of this study is to demonstrate the significance of trademarks as objects of Intellectual Property.
Also, special attention is paid to the protection of trademark rights. The most interesting approach to this issue has been proposed in this study. It is shown that the «trademark can be protected on the basis of either use or registration». If in the past these were different methods, nowadays the system of protecting trademarks is in connecting these elements. This study also represents fundamental norms, which are now used in the USA and which are, to my mind, appropriate to Russian legislation. In my research I analyze the US norms and make predictions, whether they will regulate this sphere better than it is regulated now.
Also in this study we face the phenomenon of «criteria protectability», which means «the requirements that must fulfil in order to be capable of serving as a trademark are reasonably standard throughout the world». Thus, the study demonstrates two kinds of features that a trademark should have in order to be named a trademark:
* Have distinguish features from similar products, goods or services
* There may be harmful consequences in confusing trademarks
Recently, several authors (Deborah E. Bouchoux), (William M., Posner, Richard A), have proposed a new theory, that this two features should be named as functions of the trademarks. 
Also William M., Posner, Richard A. expand these functions, adding some «extra» functions that derives from the fundamental ones. I consider this question in my research, whether this expansion is advisable and  necessary. Authors also represent trademarks as objects of the economic structure of modern world: emphasize the social costs of trademarks , offer a formal model of the economics of trademarks. 
The study of Deborah E. Bouchoux aims to give a comprehensive account of laws and treaties governing trademarks in the USA, explains their importance in legislation, represents the influence of national jurisdictions and analyzes international acts and agreements. The paper also covers the protectable matters, such as:
* «Slogans, letters and numbers
* Logos and symbols
* Fragrances, sounds, flavors, and moving images
* Designs and ornamentation
* Serialized literary and movie titles and characters».
Each matter is defined and explained. The author recommends why it is necessary to choose this or that type depending on the type of business. The study also demonstrates the protection of trademarks: steps of protection from one to another, which can be very useful. There is also a lot information about the use of marks owned by third parties. Deborah E. Bouchoux argues that if the owner doesn`t have an unconditional right, there might be some problems in practice, so she offers ways of reducing risks.
In the last few years there has been a growing interest in the problem of rights in unregistered marks. The research of Sheldon W. Halpern, Craig Allen Nard, Kenneth L. Port is focused on this issue. 
I discuss this problem in my research using judicial practice, presented in this study.
Despite there are much works about trademarks in the USA, there also some studies about such objects of intellectual property in Russian Federation. Thus, Navruzalieva V.Y 2013 deals with the history, principles and protection of trademarks in Russian Federation. I agree with statements illustrated in her study about modernization the law and on the basis of these expressions create my own position.
Methods.
To describe the theory and practice of the study, it is important to choose right methods of the research. These are methods that were used in my work:
* Comparison – is a method, which helps to find common and distinctive features of trademarks in countries, with different law systems.
I compared legislations of intellectual rights in Russian Federation and in the USA; compared different definitions of trademarks.
* Analysis – is a method of identification and investigation the parts separately and together.
Analysis of definitions, future ways of modernization, 
* The historical method – a method of describing objects in chronological order. 
Description of previous legislations, which regulated norms about trademarks; the origin of trademarks in the world: reasons and consequences of occurrence.
* The hypothetical method. 
The application of the law of foreign countries in the law of the Russian Federation, the expected results that we will face and their impact on judicial practice in our country.
* Synthesis.
Connection of different definitions, principles, functions of trademarks, making it a whole object of the research.
Results Anticipated.
We think that after analyzing the legislation on trademarks in different countries (the Russian Federation and the USA), and after reviewing judicial practice we will find the path of development for our country. Trademarks, as a «young» object of an intellectual property rights need reliable protection, which we hope to offer. 
Therefore, we will also make our concept of trademarks based on the Civil code of the Russian Federation, American legislation, international Acts and contracts, and concepts proposed by scientists. We will also prove the importance of trademarks in the modern world, the necessity of their existence and will find, and show the place and the role of Intellectual property in the legal state. 
Conclusion.
     
Legal protection of trademarks is an important issue in the modern world. Since trademarks nowadays are an integral part of every person's life - their protection and competent legal regulation is a very important aspect not only in legal, but also in economic and social spheres.
The Russian Federation, as a legal state, have to modernize intellectual property law in a manner of an adopting the experience of foreign countries where such norms exist for much longer and where there are practically no gaps in the law. Only competent actions of the legislator will help to strengthen the legal status of trademarks.
