The study examines the problem of complicated fortifications on the territory of Middle and South Ural. Furthermore, our work try to reveal problem of connections between settlements. 

The problem of local complicated fortification is regarded one of the most controversial issues in Russian archaeology. In the science, there is opinion that ananian and glydenovskoy population did not build and cannot build complicated fortifications. Scholars think that all fortifications were built by alien population. There are several arguments for this theory like the appearance of new burial type. There are same trends in science about other cultures on the Ural territory. However, our approach is suggested that local cultures can be capable to build complicated fortifications. 

The aforesaid considerations raise a general research questions, which is as follow. Did all the population of Middle and South Ural have complicated fortifications? Or only the population of the Glyadnovskay culture had them? Which similarities and differences are there between fortifications of different cultures? Can we speak about connections between settlements? Maybe we would speak about borrowing in fortificational tradition. The purpose of the research is to reveal the features of ancient settlements of different cultures in the Volga region (Middle and South Ural).
	
In conformity with the research purpose, the objectives are the following:
To select the criteria by which we will select fortifications
To create data base for analysis
To select the criteria for comparison

The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is limited by period of Early Iron Age in the Volga region between III B.C. to VI A.D. There are some other limitations in our study. Main factor in archaeology is the level of excavation of archaeological monument. Therefore, our main limitation is number of discovered archaeological monuments, which are suitable for our criteria. In addition, archaeologists often deal of a problem of access to archaeological reports, which belong other archaeological expeditions in their regions like Bashkortostan and Udmurtia. We try to escape this problem, but it can limit us. 

The study would be of value and useful because our analysis can reveal new connections between different settlements and different cultures. Furthermore, we will create a data base which can be used by other scientists. Our work will have theoretical value too. We will analyze different approaches to the study of fortifications among abroad and Russian scholars.

The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to archaeological approaches in the studying of fortifications, archaeological cultures and fortifications, which can be divided into source-oriented and problem-based studies. They will be reviewed consistently. 

Our work can be divided into three thematic blocks. First block is literature about fortifications and approaches among abroad and Russian scientists. We consider studies of different abroad scholars, systemize it and reveal approaches to investigations of fortifications, which are popular in modern science. 

We reveal five main approaches among abroad archaeologists: intuitively descriptive, functional-settlement approach, geomorpholic-typological, historical-linquistic and tiered approach. 

Intuitively descriptive approach is the most common and popular among scientists mostly because it is the easiest approach too. It is based on describing the known parameters of the object: the height of the shafts, walls, a description of the materials from which the reinforcement is made. Also a description of additional fortifications, shaft structures and natural fortifications. As we have mentioned before it is the most popular method because it does not require the integration of the studied object into any system. For example, this approach was used in the study of the fortresses of the Teutonic Order, sixteenth-century French fortifications in North America, Roman settlements beyond the Adrian rampart, and in the study of Inca fortifications.

This approach is well suited for popular science literature, but as a scientific approach, it has significant disadvantages. The scientists using it do not try to integrate objects into any systems, and it turns out that the object often fits only into some kind of chronological group. In the best case some territorial feature of the castles, like the “sewer tower” in Prussia, but no group of objects is distinguished by essential parameters, which could already be systematically analyzed.

Second popular approach is functional-settlement approach. When working with this approach, the authors do not consider fortification itself, but take the character of the functioning of the settlement as the basis for separation. The main goal of the study is not fortification itself, but what significance it bore for the people in it. Scientists distinguish some function of the settlement and essentially classify the settlement, not fortification. Although, first of all, the classification is tied to fortifications.
The problem with the functional settlement approach is that the scientists pay attention to the settlement, not to fortification. This leads to the fact that objects with the same function can have completely different fortifications. For example, the Russian trade and craft cities of Torzhok and Belozerye had the same function - trade centers - but Torzhok was a well-fortified city, and Belozerye had no fortifications. Another example, again Russian cities, Novgorod and Pskov, in terms of functions they are completely identical cities, but at the same time Novgorod had only wooden walls for a rather long time, in the 1430s a stone Kremlin was built, while Pskov acquired a stone Kremlin very early Kremlin (XI-XII centuries.).

When using the geomorpholic-topological approach, the main attention is paid to the relief features of fortification: in what geomorphological conditions the fortification is built (on a cape, on an island, on a spur of a mountain, in a cave, etc.). In some cases, how terrain and fortification interact, how fortification use natural fortifications
The problem with this approach is that the focus of research is shifting from exploring fortification itself to terrain. Its features, soil indicators and so on begin to prevail in the study, which may be useful for scientists who study the interaction of nature and ancient man, but interferes with the study of fortifications.

In some cases, scholars use historical-linquistic approach. It is based on terms in ancient languages which people named fortifications. These terms are used for classification and then try to explain why exactly such names were given to these fortifications. There is significant problem when scientists use this method – human factor that leads to wrong interpretation and wrong classification. 
The Scientists which are using tiered approach are studying a wide list of objects, including all kinds of fortifications, such as single towers, military camps, castles, individual ramparts, and so on. Then these categories are divided into categories according to other parameters, moreover, each category may have its own parameter. Those, for example, camps can be divided into two-site and one-site, while in the classification of castles the number of sites will not be taken into account at all.
Among Russian studies, we can distinguish seven approaches: intuitive-visual, method of historical and ethnographic analogues, mathematic methods, historical-cultural method, approach with using imitative model, complex approach, and geomorphological approach. 
We will not explain all of these approaches as we did before with abroad scholars. We will reveal only those of them that do not intersect with those already mentioned. 

The preparatory stage for studying fortification is to search for traces of the object on the ground. In the absence of traces on the surface, the researcher can assume, guided by knowledge of history and common sense, the motives of the builders of fortification, i.e. suggest what terrain a builder would use for better defensive fortification ability. That is how method of historical and ethnographic analogues works. 

Historical-cultural method is the method is based on a systematic analysis of cultural traditions. It is about historical phenomena and how they are reflected. Furthermore, approach is based on knowledge of the material traces that fortifications leave. This method is essentially dialectical, since it allows us to reconstruct not only the missing parameters, but also various historical phenomena and to trace the influence of the characteristics of the object on each other.
Last approach that Russian scientists use in the study of fortifications it is approach with using imitative model. This approach is based on the creation of a model of fortification, which will be created on the basis of indicators of the object (the height of walls, shafts, the material from which the fortifications are made, and so on). Then, with the help of the created model, scientists carry out reconstruction using simple tasks that show many important things. For example, how the site of the fortification is protected from the bottom of the hill, how protected people are on the walls. It shows from what distance the defenders could start shelling or from what distance the attackers could start the attack, how hard attacking a given fortification, people storm the ramparts and as much as possible, how much supposedly the fortification could have been under siege, and so many how. 
Unfortunately, it is least popular approach because it is complicated and requires serious preparation for its application.
Second literature block is about local Ural cultures (Imenkovskaya culture, Azela, Glyadenovskaya, Mazuninskaya, Bakhmutinskaya). We examine how scientists have explored cultures and their fortifications before us. We will only talk about Glyadenovskaya culture due to the limited format of work.

The history of studying the archeology of Prikamye, and in particular the Glyadenovskaya culture, can be divided into several periods - pre-revolutionary, pre-war, post-war and modern.

The pre-revolutionary period is characterized by weak archaeological excavation techniques, material collection and almost complete absence of analysis of the collected material.

The second stage in the historiography of archeology of the Perm Territory is the post-revolutionary period. Excavations are actively carried out during this period. In addition, for the first time, scientists propose highlighting the Glyaden culture.
 
Due to the war and the call to the front of many archaeologists studies of the CAE GAIMK are interrupted. Then, only in 1947, based on the historical and philological faculty of Molotov State University, an archeology cabinet, a new archaeological expedition, and school and student groups were created. The following period can be distinguished by this date - the post-war period. as an independent one. During this period, a new more scientific principle of the allocation of cultures is created. Therefore, scientists formed new point of view on Glydenovskaya culture, which are allowed to form a modern understanding of culture.

The last stage that can be distinguished is the modern stage, which can be dated from the 90s of the last century to the present. It can be characterized by security excavations, as a result of which many settlement monuments were discovered and subsequently investigated, with the help of which new features of the construction of houses, as well as the specialization of residential and utility rooms, were revealed. During this period, scholars begun to investigate little-studied territories

Since the work uses archaeological reports, the primary method is comparative method. As opposed to at is aimed at “understanding” rather than explanation of the source. However, the process of comparison is a procedure that needs to be based on criteria selection. This method helps to illuminate similarities and differences between different forts, which correspond to the main purpose of the research. 
Result anticipated

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to some specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the main similarities and differences will be determined according to comparative analysis, which will be make in this study. It will demonstrate difficult tradition of fortification or opposite that can lead us to suggestion about more complicated connections between cultures on the territory of Middle and South Ural. 

To summarize all the questions considered earlier the research presented contributes significantly to the studies of fortifications. 
Mechanism of interactions between different settlements are explored on the data of archaeological reports with the help of the comparative method and spatial analysis. 
Another subject of the study is theoretical analysis of different approaches to the study of fortifications among abroad and Russian scholars. 

In addition, our study reveals similarities and differences in fortificational tradition between the cultures of Middle and South Ural. These results show impact of cultures on each other. Furthermore, it show us geomorphological aspect of construction of fortifications (how and why ancient people choose place for building).

We will continue work with this subject. In our next research, we will include more settlements for analysis.