The Reorganization is the last global reform in the USSR, which was characterized in big changes in structures of state and party mechanisms. This changes are not only resulted in the collapse of the Soviet Union, but also they became the political and economic basis of modern Russia. That’s why it is important to know, how the Reorganization is proceeded at all levels of power, including a provinces, far from big political intrigues. 

There are a little studies, which are analyzed ways of reflection of the Reorganization in district level of power. The realization of the purpose of the study can to help to understand the specific features in relations between party workers in conditions of the Reorganization, features in changes of role of a district party organization in district management in time of crisis of the Communist Party of Soviet Union and in period of forming of opposition political organizations.     

The main issues which I consider relates to the Reorganization and its influence on party workers and their actions. How Cherdyn district party workers received the information about innovations of the Reorganization? How they reacted on them? Did they used different public platforms for expressing their opinions? How confrontations between Cherdyn district party workers is developed? The different kind of issues in my research relates to general state of Communist Party of Soviet Union on the territory of Cherdyn district. How number of members of the party is changed? Why people leaved the party? How relations changed between Cherdyn district party organization and other people?    

The main key term in my research is the Reorganization. In my research I analyze the second period of the Reorganization, which starts in 1989 and ends in 1991. In this chronological decision I follow to Pikhoya R.G. He also analyzes the Reorganization in two periods (Pikhoya, 2000, p.496). The period in my research starts after publications of decisions of the 19th Party Conference and ends after the collapse of the USSR. 

Another key term in my research is the Cherdyn district. In my research Cherdyn district is the territory, which was included in administrative formation with district administrative center in Cherdyn between 1989 and 1991.  
Literature Review
     
The main problem of literature on the subject of the Reorganization is that fact, what not much time has passed from events of the Reorganization. Also the effects of this events were so global that some people have reflected about them on a long time. Because of both this reasons the literature about the reorganization is full of personal experiences of authors, their emotions. As a result in this works there is a lot of subjective assessments which are founded more on their own experience than on analyzing of sources.
        
The main authors who wrote about the different aspects of the Reorganization are Bezborodov A.B. (Bezborodov, 2013), (Bezborodov, 2009), Medvedev R.A. (Medvedev, 2010), Pikhoya R.G. (Pikhoya, 2000), Ibragimova D.H. (Ibragimova, 1997), Kordonsky S.G. (Kordonsky, 2006) and others. 
     
The common feature of these studies (except the research by Ibragimova D.H.) is analyze of the Reorganization from point of view of power. All this authors studied the main events of the Reorganization in central authorities of power: the Central Committee of the Communist party, the Council of common deputies, the Congresses of the Communist party and  the All-Union party conferences. For example, the study “The Soviet Union: history of power. 1945-1991” by Pikhoya R.G. is analyze relations between party and administrative powers in Soviet Union between 1945 and 1991. In his research the period of the Reorganization is one of parts in global interaction between party and administrative powers (Pickhoya, 2000).  
     
As the changing of role of the Communist party in the Soviet Union is one of more important trend of the Reorganization, different authors are focus on this question. Bezborodov A.B. is one of authors who wrote a book where was included history of the Communist movement in Russia from first political clubs in 19th century to modern communist movements in end of 20th and begin of 21th centuries. Here, as in the case of Pikhoya, author analyzes the Reorganization as time part of global process of development of communist movement. His study about the Communist party in time of the Reorganization shows how role of communists is changed, how crisis of soviet economy became crisis of the Communist party of Soviet Union and how the communist party ceased to be a guarantor of stability (Bezborodov, 2013). 
     
Because of that fact what in soviet system of power administrative and party authorities were closely connected, it is important to understand how the soviet system of power was set up: what authorities related to party system and what – to administrative system? How these systems worked on different levels of power, from all-union level to local level (town or district)? What responsibilities have every system on documents and in real life? Answers on such kind of questions must give the work “The markets of power. The administrative markets of the USSR and Russia” by Kordonsky S.G. As he write, one of his purposes in this book is to see how people lived and worked in conditions of soviet system of power. Specially he interested in phenomenon of the “shadow economy”, activity of soviet intelligentsia and its role in the transformation of the Soviet administrative market (Kordonsky, 2006, p. 4). But for understanding this phenomenon author needs to understand: how this system worked? That’s why the first part of his research relates to analyze of party and administrative systems of power, their connections and functions in different periods of USSR including the Reorganization.
     
Also there are different authors who analyze only the Reorganization process but in different ways: from new laws to international relations. For example it is “The Soviet Union. The last years of life” by Medvedev R.A. or “The Reorganization and the collapse of the USSR. 1985-1993” by Bezborodov A.B. and others. Both these books focus only on the Reorganization from different sides. Political campaigns, economic reforms, problems with realization – so global analysis can to help to sort out in events of processes of the Reorganization. 
     
Besides the literature which relates to central trends and events of the Reorganizations, there is literature about specific forms of realization of inventions of the Reorganization. 
     
Cherdyn district in time of the Reorganization specialized on the agricultures and on the lumbering. The main manufacturing in the district was in collective and state farms, productions for wood processing. Ibragimova D.H. focuses on agriculture development in countryside. Cherdyn district has not large-scale industry and big population. That’s why conclusions of its research can have something general with real status of agriculture in Cherdyn district in time of the Reorganization.
     
As majority of authors before, in her study the Reorganization is just one of parts. Ibragimova creates the parallel with the NEP (New Economic Policy), which was created and expressed by Lenin in 20th years of 20th century. In the study she analyzes these policies for different reason. Firstly it happened in one country, secondly in spite of the difference in sixty years both these policies focus on change of economic paradigm (Ibragimova, 1997, p. 3). And, as a result, they can to be analyzed as attempt of transition to market economy. 
     
Special kind of literature is the memoirs of central characters of Reorganization. Main subject in this part of literature is the memoirs of Gorbachev M.S. after the collapse of the USSR he wrote a lot of books where he tried to remember how the Reorganization developed and also to answer on most popular questions: what mistakes were made and was it possible to avoid the effects which happened as a result of. The main memoire which I am using in my research is “Life and Reforms. Book one”. This memoire is discover the features of creation of the Reorganization and discussions about it more broadly. This memoire consists of two books but second book is about international relations in time of the Reorganization which are not relates to purpose of my research. First book, in its turn, show processes of Reorganization in the USSR (Gorbachev, 1995).
     
Among literature there are more a few memoirs. For example it is works by Ligachev E.K. (Ligachev, 2005), Rizhkov N.I. (Rizhkov, 1995).

Methodologically, the research is conducted within the framework of modernization, which helps to see how the elements of market and democratic institutes, which laid the basis of the Reorganization, reflected by people with the soviet framework of power. The analysis of sources is based on search of personal opinions of party workers which relates to the Reorganization in official documents: protocols of party meetings, party conferences, letters and documents in official authorities of Cherdyn district party organization. Also it is important to search, how Cherdyn party workers tried to realize new trends of the Reorganization, how the relations of party workers developed in cases of confrontation as between them as with non-party people.

Another kind of analysis of sources is searching such kind of information in a public platform. In Cherdyn district the main public platform of expressing different opinions is newspaper “Severnaya zvezda” (authority of the district Party Committee and the district Council of common deputies). Here I am interested in notes and articles written by party workers, members of the Communist party or non-party citizens on theme of the Reorganization, problems in the district, problems of the party or its different representatives. This notes is important because authors of them tried to create public response. For some reason they thought that it cannot be ignored. That’s why analysis of this source is important, specially, if some articles provoked reaction from official party or soviet workers.
     
Such kind of search will be possible thanks to method of historical reconstruction which consists of analysis of different sources for searching special kind of information. After that it is going construction from this information to general developing process. In my research it is process of development of opinion about the Reorganization by party workers in Cherdyn district.   

The main excepted result of the research is the modeling of main mechanisms of reflection and realization of innovations of the Reorganization by party workers in Cherdyn district and detection of features in reflection and realization on the project of the Reorganization, which was created in central authorities of power.

More radical measures in relation to traditional soviet model of power led aggravation of relations within the Cherdyn district committee. Misunderstanding and denial of conservative-minded part of the district committee of innovations led to discussions and controversies. The main topics for discussion were becoming a problem of provision of goods for district, crisis of Communist party as on all-union as on district levels. The local newspaper, in the conditions of the Reorganization becomes more independent: they are publishing materials which are criticized the authorities of power, and sometimes they cause a reaction and discussion in the district committee. The political and national crisis did not affect the Cherdyn district, but from time to time become part of their rhetoric, but only as a problem of the state, of which just do not forget.