History in universal meaning reflects general processes and trends without details of everyday life oh human’s aspects of their life, his thoughts and feelings in a particular historical period.

A desire to reveal the truth and to draw a clear line between fact and fiction has led historians to study the history of everyday life.
The relevance of this study is determined by an inexhaustible interest of contemporary historians in the sphere of culture and art and freedom of expression. Today most of the population is concerned about the tightening of censorship in the cultural sphere. Events such as, for example, the performance of the punk band Pussy Riot in church cause strong repercussions both in Russian and foreign societies.
Professional Significance. This study is a new progress as it uses unpublished sources and is dedicated to local history.

Delimitations of the study. The object of our study is the theater of the 30s of the XX century, the subject is everyday life of The Perm Opera and Ballet Theatre. Selection of the study period and the place is characterized by complex relationship between culture and power. The government has sought to create an ideology, a single sample, and fit under it such a complex and tending to the scope of freedom of expression as  culture. How could theater survive in conditions of terror? How could creative people cope with the constraints dictated by the government?

The aim of the research is to construct  everyday life of the theater workers.
The objectives of this study are:
- To identify the conflict which would affect the violation of everyday life;
- The analyze the living standards and purchasing power of the theater workers in comparison with other citizens of the USSR;
- The analyze working and everyday household acting of the theater employees.

Provincial everyday life of the 30s remains poorly investigated. 

To accomplish the aim and objectives of the research  were processed  the documents of the State Archive of Perm region and Perm State Archive of Contemporary History.

Notion "everyday life" often mistakenly equate to daily life: clothing, food, daily routine. But it is false hypothesis.
So from the monography of Begunova that is full of smallest details about hussars life during the reign of Alexander I (Begunova, 2000) we can find a lot of information about the form and weapons of soldiers, about their daily routine in the regiment of military exercises and ways of activities, about balls, duels and so on. Moreover all information proved by relevant documents.
However I dare to suggest that the monography of Begunova is a practical guide about the history of hussar’s life but not the qualitative research of their everyday life. It is absolutely necessary to possess by knowledge about the smallest domestic details but it’s not a sufficient factor in the study of history of everyday life. The traveler who had come from a distant land see a bunch of minute details but these details are ordinary for the inhabitants of these land, it is only the background throughout their lives (History of everyday life, 2003, s.7-14). Therefore the main objective of our research is to penetrate into the inner life of a person it is extremely important to identify the expectations and experiences of the people of our sample period.
Lotman developed a method of studying of a consumer culture that explore problems "inside" it is called the semiotic approach and it is cross with the interpretation of everyday life in the phenomenological tradition.
Lotman classifies consumer behavior on ordinary (daily, granted, routine) and unusual (the solemn, festive, ritual). Here Lotman’s intersects cross with the article of Elias "On the concept of everyday life" (Elias 2001, p.24).
The main idea of ??Elias is that there is no independent structure in the notion of  “everyday life” is not his own but it is an integral part of the social layer which means that it is an integral part of society in total because social stratum never considered independently. (Elias 2001, p.24)

Defining the concept of the "everyday life" Elias distinguishes eight pairs of concepts which determine the "everyday life" through its opposite:

1. The everyday life as the opposite of the celebration;
2. The everyday life as a routine;
3. The daily life as a working day – as opposed to idleness;
4. The everyday life as the life of the masses – in  contrast to the life of high-ranking officials;
5. The everyday life as a sphere of everyday events – as opposed to "great" events;
6. The everyday life as a private life – as opposed to the official life;
7. The everyday life as a sphere of natural thinking – in contrast to the sphere of science;
8. The everyday life like everyday consciousness. (Elias 2001, p.26)

The everyday life is a kind of relative design and it is occurs only when the researcher distinguishes between the spheres of public life. This conclusion is very important for researchers of the theory of the everyday life because there is no the everyday life in nature and therefore its study cannot be a scientific task. So as was claimed by Elias everyday life becomes important only in the case of the "enemy". (Elias 2001 p.24). That is we can use the tools in the history of everyday life when we want to explore the political, economic or military history.

Proponents of the german history of everyday life led by Ludtke make it alike microhistory and historical anthropology. They examine not classes but individual families and individuals. Thus studying the domestic aspects of working at home and in the factory  Ludtke changed traditional notions of labor history because he found significant differences inside the proletarian class. (Ludtke, 1998, p.77)
In such a way a good research see the details of everyday life not like an aim but like a means to understanding the context of a phenomenon.

My research is devoted to the 30th years of XX century so our most important author is Osokina and her writings such as "The hierarchy of consumption. On the life of people under Stalin supply 1928-1935 "," Behind the facade of "Stalinist abundance", "The distribution and the market in the supply of the population in the years of industrialization, 1927-1941." Works of Osokina help to see the man of the Stalin era "from within". These books are written about state economy about the destruction and the revival of the Soviet market, sharpen its focus on the phenomenon in the history of Soviet Union as queues. Many hours and even multi-day queues in which people spent part of their life. How to get scarce products, what about people talked in the queues, did these conversations could overhear the police? Answers to these questions are not simply describe the minutiae of everyday life but help to get inside the mind of man and do not look down on him.
Hellbek exploring the diaries of the 1930s the owners of which were from completely different sectors of the population could revolutionize how did Soviet citizens through the building of communism built itself as a "new people". Since the diaries according Hellbeck in essence is a tool for self-knowledge it helps the researcher to analyze the individual moments in the era of collectivization and to analyze the formation of Soviet identity. Hellbek developed a new direction in Soviet history - "Soviet subjectivity", which studies consciousness of the Soviet man. (Hellbek 2010, p.50)
An important work for our reserch is the "Encyclopedia of platitudes. Soviet everyday life: the outlines, symbols, signs" by Natalia Lebina. (Lebina 2006, s.441).

Article of Ivanov "Theatrical business in the Soviet Union in the 1928-36 biennium" investigates the period of the Soviet theater it helped us to understand the issue of relations between the authorities and the theater in the 30s of XX century. (Ivanov S. theatrical business in the Soviet Union in the 1928-36 biennium. URL: http://www.historicus.ru/Teatralnoe_delo_v_SSSR/ (date of treatment 04/09/2015)
The next stage of our work is to study the history of Perm theater. Here the main thing for us is the work of  Iwinskikh  "Perm theater period. From the history of theatrical art of the Perm region. XIX - the beginning of XXI century " (Iwinskikh 2014). The monograph organizes an idea of the theatrical life of Perm and focuses on historical processes taking place in the theatrical life of the city.

During the work we used the following methods: comparative-historical method, structure-systematic method and method of case studies. Using comparative-historical method we can reveal general and specific in historical phenomena, achieved knowledge of different historical stages of development of the same phenomenon or two different coexisting phenomena. Comparative-historical method allows to identify and to compare the levels of development of the studied object, the changes, to identify the trends of development. Structure-systematic method aims to study objects and phenomena of the past as an integral historical systems: analysis of their structure and function, internal and external communications (morphology) as well as dynamic changes (genesis). The method of case studies allows to delve into the issue on the basis of the individual case and examine it from all possible sides. The study was conducted as part of the methodology of everyday life.

As a result of our research we expect to find some conflict points that can reflect the deviations from the everyday life because it can show how the everyday life must look like. One of the results of research should be qualitative analysis of living standards and purchasing power of the theater employees. We need to get the results of a comparison of theater workers with other citizens of the USSR. We must to get an analysis of working and everyday household theater employees. The main expected result is the constructed everyday life of the theater workers.

Summing up the results of our work and remembering the purpose and objectives of our reserch we can say the following.
We managed to find a unique archive document it is the staff report of a dismmissed stage director Stefanovich on theater director Kalinin which has been found the conflict which was necessary for us. Conflict of interest that was described in a report made it possible to draw conclusions about what really was the everyday life of the theater and what was a violation of it. Contrast that is visible due to a conflict helps to determine exactly everyday moments.

With the above documents and other archival data and literature that is devoted on the everyday life of the 30s we were able to analyze the standard of living and purchasing power of the theater employees. One of the main conclusions of our work is that compared with the bulk of Soviet citizens theater workers were better materially provided. In our research we investigated some aspects of working and home theater of everyday life: the number of performances that the actor had to play in a month, the duration of leave, solutions to conflicts among the employees of the theater.

However due to the difficulties associated with finding the necessary documents the picture of everyday life of the Perm Opera and Ballet Theatre in the 30s of XX century is not completely made up. We have not been studied for at least how the case of Kalinin was settled, why Perm City Committee of Communist ignored the complaints of workers and the ruling of RABIS for many years and was he removed from office eventually. 