The problem of life in Soviet province in the late soviet period is considers one of the most controversial issues in microhistory. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under the question: the theory of everyday life and the semiology. Both of these approaches have several methods in common, but their main difference is that semiology is mostly used as methodology in the works deals with the visual sources. 

Another aspect of the research, which makes the concept of people’s habits stand out among other historical matters, is that in different regions of the USSR people lived with great differences. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern history studies have special appreciation for everyday life historians as they reflect another dimension. The problem (the concept) of people’s life in the Soviet period has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach (concept) that could put all the diverse accounts of processes into the context of consumption, highlighting the Soviet province.
Research Hypothesis. It is hypothesized that the analysis if the interviews of people who lived in the late Soviet period in the Soviet province will reveal different cultural and economic practices, which will represent the existing reality in everyday life.

The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: what economic and cultural practices were using in the late Soviet period in the Soviet province? After this crucial question is imposed, it can be further accentuated by the issues of external and internal reactions to this involvement, that is to say that the response of other actors such as policy and the Communist Party itself should be taken into account. After the acute question is formulated the purpose of the research is formulated. A study of these issues is in regard of people’s opportunities in the 1960-s – middle 1980-s. The aim of the research is to reconstruct everyday life practices in the Soviet province.

In conformity with the research purpose the objectives are the following: 
1. To research the degree of knowledge of the theme of the family of the late Soviet period in Russian and foreign literature;
2. To analyze economic contexts of life in the Soviet province:
2.1. A family’s practices in the accommodation contexts;
2.2. A Soviet family in the contexts of child birth and parenting;
2.3. A Soviet family in the contexts of consumptions.

The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is limited by the late Soviet period, that is between 1960-s – 1980-s. In this period of political and social stability appears a convention between the government and society: the separation of the private life from the official. The emergence of an urban nuclear family and social guarantees from the state to support a young family also characterizes this period. Now the state takes care of its citizens, young families - increasing the terms of decrees, the appearance of child benefits and other incentives for motherhood. 

According to the requirement imposed by the methodology of microhistory, the study will concentrate mainly on the Soviet province, especially Perm region. The last limitation deals with limited quantity of the sources.

Professional Significance. The study would be of value and interest because many issues regarding everyday life in the Soviet province in the late Soviet period have not been studied properly yet. However, in recent years, considerable attention has been paid to this particular area of the late Soviet period. Thus, this research will fit into to the contemporary historiographical trend.
The work also explores the possibilities of the microhistorical approach as applied to the history of the everyday life – the period typically considered insufficiently thoroughly in terms of primary source materials. However, in the case of the young family in the late Soviet period the task of microhistorical analysis seems possible to carry out. And this can be of special interest to scholars and students of History Programmes.

The key terms of the project are the M. de Certeau’s “strategies” and “tactics”. The “strategies” is the position of the “strong”, which has fixed territory, has its own hierarchy and complemented by sustainable symbols. The “tactics” means the position of the “weak”. It is characterized by lack of territory, flexible forms of organization and moving identity.

The late Soviet period is the period in history of the Soviet Union between 1960-s – 1980-s.

The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to the questions of family policy in the USSR, social support of the youth, the overview of the late Soviet period, which can be divided into source-oriented and problem-based studies. They will be reviewed consistently.

The main problem of the research is that there are not many English-language sources of monographs which will be completely characterized the policy of the CPSU to a young family. Some of the foreigner researchers wrote about Soviet family law at all, among the whole period of the USSR. Lewis A. Coser had a general view as a sociologist on this problem. His article aimed to highlight important aspects of everyday life. They are the social position of the Soviet women; the motherhood in the conditions of female labor; the childhood and the system of education. However, this paper gives us the information only about the earliest period of the Soviet authority. By the way, the article of Gary Lee Bowen raised a female issue. How female’s questions in the Soviet policy depended on the Soviet family life. As indicator there was a demography which characterized the Soviet marriage at all.

In this case Geoffrey Hosking wrote the monograph about the history of the Soviet Union. One of the parts is especially curious in our research. G. Hosking characterized the Soviet society in two main categories – “trust” and “distrust” in the 1930-s. He also explained why the theory of “distrust” continued to exist to the end of the USSR and what consequences we can see in modern Russia. 

It was a society many of whose basic structures were determined not only by the political system as such, but also indirectly by the configurations of trust and distrust generated by that system in a society many of whose stable landmarks had been destroyed by war, revolution and rapid social change.

The problem of the new politic in 1930-s is also raised by Sheila Fitzpatrick. The theme of new family policy is also presented there. What emotions and feelings are in these families in their everyday life? What social conditions and the Party support do they get? The author compared the Soviet period, especially Stalin’s period and the 21st Century.

The monograph written by Donald Raleigh tries to explain the reasons of the dissolution of the Soviet Union through the memories of the people who lived in this period. The story started when his respondents went to school, their ways of entering the elite schools in Moscow and Saratov. The author compares these cities as the capital and the province. The Cold War generation describes their fascinating life-stories, which give us an overview of the period.

To understand these strategies mentioned above we can turn to the M. de Certeau’s monograph about the inventions of the everyday. This book examines the ways how people privatize and individualize the mass culture and invention their own language.

There are some outstanding researches about the last Soviet decades. Reflecting on the topic of the real power in the 1970-s – 1980-s Stephen White supposed “The real political role of the Party was first acknowledged in the 1977 Constitution, which continued to insist in Article 3 that 'all power belong[ed] to the people” (Stephen White, 1994, p. 643). Since that time the CPSU “was no longer monolithic and fatally compromised an organization that had itself initiated the process of democratization” (1994, p. 663).  There is an opportunity to understand reality and freedom in the late Soviet period. Probably, people did not understand everything yet, but the start was given.
Aleksei Urchak wrote a monograph about the late Soviet period, but this work can be used as a guide into the earlier periods. He described a new history about the language as an instrument of the ruling Party, “the imagined West”, the binary socialism and so on. 

At the same time there are some monographs and articles in Russia. Although the work of N. Lebina describes periods from war communism to the Khrushchev Thaw, this gives the researcher a fairly complete picture of the Soviet everyday life of previous periods. Conditionally, the work can be divided into two large parts - material and social. In the first part, Lebina begins with the difficult time of war communism, food, problems and ways of obtaining housing, and then, gradually, goes into the second part, which reveals Soviet everyday life through the prism of social processes taking place at that time: these are the problems of drunkenness, mentioned in the book “retreat” and suicide, and prostitution. The process of moving away from religion and creating new civil ceremonies that somehow normalized the everyday life of Soviet citizens.

In her second work Lebina raises the problem of gender order, as well as economic practices in conditions of a deficit in the Khrushchev Thaw period. Thus, we can also conditionally divide the work into two parts: the first five chapters - questions of physicality: dating practices, wedding ceremonies, family problems, the second part, chapters 6-10 are connected with fashion and the specifics of Soviet realities.  

The chapters are also accompanied by visual sources, photographs, which give us a visual representation of the described practices.
Summing up the results of his research, the author writes about the inevitable influence of the Soviet government on the private life of citizens and the formation of special forms of official control over the private. At the same time, the old model of relations “man - woman” is also transforming and acquiring into a new form. 

An appeal to the works of Zdravomyslova and Temkina gives us a conceptualized view of what kind of woman the Soviet regime wanted to see: on the one hand, the woman is the same as the man who built communism, and on the other the mother, who is also responsible for raising decent citizens of the state. The woman “working mother” carried a double burden, double responsibility.

Since the work uses interviews as the main source the primary method is the interpretation of meanings and representation of economic and cultural practices. As opposed to comparative analysis, it is aimed at understanding rather than explanation of the source. However, the process of interpretation is a procedure that needs to be based on a consistent methodology. For this study, the microhistorical approach was adapted as a frame of reference. This method helps to illuminate the functioning of general tendencies at the level of individuals, which corresponds to the main purpose of the research. Everyday life history initially emerged in the 1980-s.  The idea behind the new methodology was to interpret meanings of province citizens and to reconstruct their everyday practices which are going to represent young family in different contexts of the soviet life.
	
Also the research suggests using the M. de Certeau’s methodology. It opens the opportunity to see the differences of the aims of the Communistic Party (“strong” position) and the citizens (“weak” position).
Results
	
As a result, the thesis is supposed to achieve all the goals and objectives stated in the beginning with the methodology mentioned.
Firstly, the main features of the late Soviet period will be determined according to its representation in literature which gives us a full context of the epoch.

Secondly, the interviews as the main sources will represent the main economic and cultural strategies of the young family in everyday life context. They are accommodation and the ways of getting it, the birth of the child and parenting and the consumption. The last item will includes food purchase, vacations and business trips in the context of deficit. 

These findings will serve to establish diverse patterns of social relationships with different power, legal structures, which will then be put together to formulate a comprehensive model of communication between various institutions in the Soviet period.

To summarize all the questions considered earlier, the research presented contributes significantly to the studies of the everyday life in Soviet province. Mechanisms of establishing connections between the memories and the contexts are explored on the data of interviews with the help of the Soviet film approach, which is adjusted for the work in a timeframe. The economic and cultural practices in the Soviet Union of the 1960-s – 1980-s can be described as tactics of the “weak” position to get around the “strong” position. It means that people tried to live in their own state with their own laws within living in the USSR. A new unit of society is facing the following problems: how to get your home as soon as possible, because based on the stories of the respondents, most of them were women, they were at a certain period of pregnancy. Consequently, the young family immediately stood in line for housing, but there were some nuances. Upon receipt of the living space, it was necessary to somehow equip it. Here various tactics and social networks were used.

Thus, the results of the research prove the hypothesis that there were used some economic strategies which helped to survive in the limited frameworks.