The theme of repression has been well studied in Russian historiography, and in the foreign, but the main emphasis is on studying the Moscow events. Study of repression at the micro level is given less attention. We fill this gap, paying attention to the studied structure. Regional specificity in the years of the Great Terror shows that most of the workers were repressed. The study of the history of political repression at the micro level allows you to expand the understanding of the Great Terror. This study enables us to understand what criteria there was a selection of victims of repression, methods and forms of cooperation of the NKVD, the authorities and bodies subject to them in the implementation of repressive policies, the specifics of the investigation procedures. This study focuses on the role of a serial structure, such as the Division of hiring and firing at the industrial enterprises of Perm during the political repression of the 1930s.
    
The main role in the Great Terror in the regions was played by the NKVD. Meanwhile, a variety of structures of power were forced to take part in the political processes of the era. The research deals with the mechanisms of the terror at the micro level, the role in the process of managing the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal, changing configuration of power in the enterprise, formal and informal status of the structure.
    
The purpose of the research is to identify the place and role of the Divisions of Recruitment and Dismissal during the Great Terror.
   
To achieve our goal, it is necessary to solve the following research objectives:
1. To determine the role of Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal in the structure of the plant;
2. Identify the tactics of the Divisions of Recruitment and Dismissal during the Great Terror.
    
Thus, we have to find out what role was played by political repression on the territory of the Kama region and role of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal during the Great Terror.
    
And also we must identify the extent to which the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal on the life of the plant, as well as on the relationship with his superiors.

The main sources in this research is archival material in the archives of the city of Perm. We use the documents: orders, reports, records of interrogations, photographs. The defferent archival documents the number of users of various complaints, mostly, this figure does not exceed ten persons. Purpose for the most part - for the study.
    
Also, in the research we used "Memory Book" - online magazine from the community "Memorial", which presents articles about the repressed people in Perm. [Years of Terror. URL: http://www.pmem.ru/assets/files/Knigi/gody_terrora%206_4.pdf. (date of treatment 05/16/2015)].
    
In Russia, the study of the Great Terror starts after the fall of the Soviet Union, especially at the beginning of the twenty first century. Learning the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal in the Kama region began approximately in 2004. In our study, we used the works of authors such as: Oleg Khlevnyuk [Khlevnyuk, 1992, 2010], Khaustov B. and L. Samuelson [Khaustov Samuelson, 2010], N. Petrov and M. Jansen [Petrov, Jansen, 2009], Robert Conquest [Conquest 1991] Svetlana Fedotova [Fedotov, 2009] and other Russian and foreign authors who have written and explore the Great Terror and the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal.
    
One of the first who began to explore the period of  the reign of Stalin and his policies of the Great Terror in Russia was Oleg Khlevnyuk. In his work "1937: Stalin, the NKVD and the Soviet society" [Khlevnyuk, 1992], published in 1992, highlights the reasons that led to the Great Terror, also addresses the issue of community opposition to Stalin. Next work of Oleg Khlevnyuk more fully reflects the essence of the Great Terror, "Master. Stalin and approval of the Stalinist dictatorship "[Khlevnyuk, 2010], which was published already in 2010. It covers not only the author of the reasons for the formation of Terror, but also pays attention to the development of this phenomenon, describes the stages of the passage from arrest to execution. Moreover, in his book, Oleg Khlevnyuk cites the works of other scholars of the Great Terror, not only Russian. Such as Paul Gregory and his work "The Political Economy of Stalinis" Alec Nove and his work, published in 1993 «The Stalin Phenomenon», Kevin Makkdermut «Stalin's Terror. High politics and Mass Repression in the Soviet Union », released in 2003, David Scherer « Social Disorder, Mass Repression and the NKVD during the 1930”. Oleg Khlevnyuk’ research basis, like most scientists, on the archival materials.
    
A significant contribution to the study made by the scientists of the Great Terror. L. Samuelson and Khaustov. In their joint work called "Stalin, the NKVD and repression 1936-1938gg" [Khaustov Samuelson, 2010]. It was published in 2009. The focus of this book is given a role in the interaction between Stalin and the NKVD, in the period before and during the repressive policies. In addition, the analysis exposed the reasons that influenced Stalin and have set in motion repression. The researchers also conducted a historiographical review of the work. They mentioned by authors such as Robert Conquest and his work "The Great Terror" Fridrik Hottermans and Konstantin Shtepp "Russian cleaning and obtaining evidence." They also used the works of local pioneers as R. Medvedev "On Stalin and Stalinism" 1990 edition. The list of authors, whose works Khaustov Samuelson were based is large, it topic punitive policies of Stalin viewed from different angles and from different points of view, that somehow shed light on the problems and challenges in the study who have set themselves scientists.
    
The work of scientists N. Petrova and M. Jansen "Stalin's pet: Nikolai Yezhov" [Petrov, Jansen, 2009], originally published in English in 2002, and translated into Russian and reprinted in 2009, is devoted to the fate and identity of  Yezhov. Under Stalin, he was head of the NKVD. During the Great Terror in the time of Yezhov it was the bloodiest, and it was called "Yezhov period". This monograph has been studied his work, personal life. It also published a letter Yezhov, his speeches and statements.
    
With regard to foreign authors who have examined the policy of the Great Terror, the first thing I want to mention a pioneer in the study of this theme, Robert Conquest, which was mentioned earlier. In his book "The Great Terror" [Conquest, 1991] presented an analysis of the stages of mass repressions, in which direction the Soviet leadership against its punitive policy.
   
Collection of French authors, "The Black Book of Communism" [Courtois, Werth Panne Pachkovsky, Bartoshek, Margolev, 1997] includes a field study of the October Revolution of 1917, until the new policy after Stalin's death. Above this collection of works of French scientists such as Nicolas Werth, Stephane Courtois, Jean-Louis Margolin, Andrew Pachkovsky, Jean-Louis Panne, Karel Bartoshek. In French, the book was released in 1997, and translated into Russian in 1999. Research in this book are devoted to the crimes of the communist regime in the Soviet Union. With regards to the Great Terror, in this work primarily discusses the Moscow Trials, party cleaning and arrests "socially alien elements" of the thirties. In order to more fully reveal the picture of the situation in those years, scientists have used archival materials investigation files, extract from the minutes of the interrogation, an extract from the indictment, in addition, the paper contains photographs. The authors also used data in their work by other researchers, such as Oleg Khlevnyuk, V.N Zemskova, Robert Conquest, individual studies, Nicolas Werth, M.I Odintsov, as the famous American scholar specializing in the history of the USSR, especially in the period of Stalin's rule.
    
The next job, which is to pay attention - "Terror and confusion" [Vert, 2010] French scientist and historian Nicolas Werth, one of the authors of the aforementioned work of "The Black Book of Communism". The book "Terror and disorder" is completely devoted to the problems of state violence of the Soviet Union, it collected about twenty scientific papers on the subject. In addition to articles, the monograph includes works that analyze the social phenomena, develops during the Great Terror, and to him, as well as analysis of state violence. Work translated the Russian language in 2010.
    
Turning to research the Great Terror in the Russian regions, specifically Perm region, would like to mention the work of Svetlana Fedotova "Molotov cocktail" [Fedotova, 2009], published in 2009. This book contains stories about the people who lived in 1930-50 years in the city of Molotov. This work has directly affected the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal of the Union Plant ¹19. Pictorial history of relations between the Director of the plant Poberezhskiy fellow and head of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal Morzo. Basis of  Labor - archival materials and photographs.
    
Next work devoted to political repression in the Kama - "Retrospective. Perm Historical Archives Journal "[Retrospective, 2008]. The problems of the Great Terror, the practice of bulk operations, repression of workers, the clergy, the work of "threes", the work of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal in the affected ¹1 (6) by 2008. The work contains the study of the Permian historians scientists, based solely on archival materials and photo documents. The researchers also refer to the works of other scholars: G. Khlevnyuk "Politburo. The mechanisms of political power in the thirties", Sokolov " Stalin. Power and blood ", also the collection of memories of Lenin.
    
Journal of  "Memorial" 2008 issue, titled "The lesson of memory" is also dedicated to the tragic events of the thirties of the last century. It contains articles about the arrest procedures, materials investigation files, extracts from the minutes of requests. The basis of the magazine - archives.
    
The main work of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal is contained in the monograph "Included in the operation. Mass terror in the Kama area in 1937-1938 "[Leibowitz Koldushko, Kazankov etc., 2009]. The monograph is based on archival materials, there are also references to the work of other researchers. This is a compilation volume of articles devoted to the study of the various structures, people "socially alien elements", all of whom are not spared the Stalinist repressions. The paper also reveals the mechanism of interaction between the center and the periphery, the role of the NKVD in the mass operations, the mechanism of "triples", the practice of repressive measures at the plants on the basis of the interactions of the plant and the Director of the Division of hiring and firing. Speaking of references to the work of other researchers, it should be noted that the authors of these monographs refer to such scientists as we already know, Oleg Khlevnyuk, Nicolas Werth, M. Petrov and N. Jansen, AJ Gurevich, Chegodaeva M., Stetsovsky YU.I.

The methodological basis of this study is the neo-institutional approach, which considers the institutional structure of production, and also contractual relations. In the context of this work, this approach reveals the formal and informal rules of the Institute, which define the shape of the relationship and regulate behavior. Neo-institutional approach suggests that the presence of the rigid structure (institute) agent has a certain freedom within rigid structures, this freedom is realized in tactics and strategy. Also, the study uses the concept of practices De Certeau, his work "Strategies, tactics and asymmetric conflict" [Volkov, Kharkhordin, 2008]. Here we will appeal to the notion of conformity.

In our study, we use historical and genetic approach, which allows us to reveal the specifics of the formation of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal. To be precise, external conformity, which allows us to identify the stages and causes changes in the behavior and opinions of the people because of the influence of pressure from other people or from one person.

We also need to explain the facts, identify the causes of them, monitor their development and to analyze the consequences. In addition, to answer the questions, we can help these scientific methods, both qualitative content analysis and induction. Through qualitative content analysis, we can identify the true reasons for the dismissal of the workers from the factories of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal.
    
In this research I expect to have confirmation or denial of the hypotheses made. I assume that all of the hypotheses will be confirmed. Based on the first task, we are at the basis of archival documents must study the stages of formation of the department and identify its place in the structure of the plant.
    
Due to the second task of our research, we need to identify actions that guided Head of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal before the start of the Great Terror and during it.

After analyzing the stages of formation of the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal as the structure of the plant and its location in an industrial plant, we found that this structure was created as a tool of political repression. Official submission to the director of the plant, did not mean that his orders will be executed unconditionally. This may mean that the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal has played a major, if not, then a very important role in the life of plants.
   
In essence, the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal was only a cog in the mechanism of the Great Terror, but it is worth noting that despite the fact that the director of the plant for all the documents and all the canons of a tip of the power plant, the NKVD and the remaining power to keep the structure of the Soviet Union gave the Divisions of  Recruitment and Dismissal a huge credibility and support, thus allowing them to administer tyranny. 
    
To perform a second task, we had to consider the case - the relationship of the Chief of Recruitment and Dismissal and the director of the plant, which has helped us to identify the tactics used by the head of the Division of  Recruitment and Dismissal. We have taken a concrete example - the relationship director of factory ¹19 Poberezhskiy and his assistant in the department of hiring and firing Morzo.
    
Head of Division of  Recruitment and Dismissal before making an order of dismissal collect compromising materials on the factory workers. After this order, with the attendant got on the table compromising director of the plant, which was left on the fate of the working solution. 