The norms of gender relations in modern Russia, largely inherited from the Soviet period. But patterns of behavior and values in the USSR relating to marriage, often transformed and reflected on the everyday life of the Soviet people.  Liberalization and democratization of public and political life in 1960’s brought into everyday life of the Soviet people new knowledge and practices that, in particular, are associated with marriage and family. The subsequent Soviet period of "stagnation", characterized as of relative social stability in society, already is from the ideas formed on the norms of premarital and family life. As a result, it is possible to analyze the already established notions about marriage in this period.

The aim of research it is to reconstruct ideals, norms and practices of marriage by Soviet citizens in the 1970-80s.To achieve the aim necessary to solve the following goals. Firstly, toinvestigate the historiography of the problem of life orientations and values of the Soviet people in the 70s related to marriage and family norms. In the second, describe the social and legal factors that affected the conception of marriage to 70-80’s of XX century in the Soviet Union. And the last, it is to identify and describe the rules of premarital relation fromurban population in Perm in 1970-80’s.
Professional Significance. The practical result will be reconstruction the main norms, practices and ideals of premarital relations with explanation the preconditions which had influence on the marriage norms.
Delimitations of the study. The research is devoted to premarital relations so the main question is linked to marriage and gender relations. How was acquaintance, which then led to a marriage? The next question is about the practical side of the premarital relations. What factors have led to the marriage? Which sexual practices were possible if marriage and whether they were possible at all? In what age was possible to get married? What is acceptable and unacceptable in premarital relations.
Definitions of key terms. The key term of the research is marriage. The research explores the social meaning of marriage. What the Soviet people have invested in this concept. People of the late Soviet period invest in the concept of marriage more traditional meanings. 

The norms of gender relations during the Soviet period, have incur a number of changes. The problem of the establishment and transformation of the marriage normsand family in the Soviet society dedicated several of historical and sociological research. 

The first step is to determine how to define marriage and family Soviet generation of the 70 and 80s. The most popular definition of these terms is considered a Soviet sociologist A.G. Harchev. Researchers have identified a Soviet family as historically specific system of relationships between spouses, parents and children, is a small social group whose members are related by marriage and parental relationships, community life and mutual moral responsibility. At the same time, marriage - is a historically changing social form of relationship between man and woman through which society organizes and authorizes their sexual life and establishes their conjugal and parental rights and responsibilities.
	
In the 1960’s and period of "stagnation" marriage wore etacratic character. This is evidenced by studies A.A.Temkina and A.E.Zdravomyslova. The authors marked that Soviet wasas agent of regulation and formation of a gender order -etacratic order, which have authoritarian state power in two types: legislation governing marriage and creates ideological apparatus. 
	
The basis of the gender order, historicallyunderstood as pattern of power relations between men and women, developing in certain societies at the institutional, ideological, symbolic and everyday levels, primarily includes gender contract. Soviet gender contract is considered as a set of prescribed gender roles and statuses. The study of the gender contract in the USSR devoted to researches by A.A.Temkina and A.Rotkirh.«Soviet gender contracts and their transformation in Russia» Soviet gender order can be represented as a set of three different contracts that complement each other: a formal contract, the everyday (informal) and illegal («shadow»).Officially gender contract woman with the Soviet time the contract is recognized as "working mother"
N.Pushkareva and A. Kazmina in their research "The Marriage of the twentieth century in Russia the traditional installations and innovative experiments" indicate that the optimal age for marriage varies from 20 to 25 years. Also, the norm was considered the presence of at least one child in a registered marriage. Unmarried and childless women is a special sympathy and exposed to social stigmatized as an "old maid". Unmarried men also felt the pressure of public opinion, but it has always been weaker than in relation to women, so they try to marry faster than men and increased the "trial marriages". 
	
The research of changes in sexual behavior and the role of women in premarital relations in the 1970-80s, involved researchers such as A. Rotkirch and S. Tchouikina. Based on analysis of interviews Anna Rotkirch identifies several generations, differing experiences of sexual life. Generation, whose formation goes on the 1960-1980 years, A. Rotkirch calls "the generation of personalization," as in a partial democratization of the political regime and the liberalization of everyday personal values, family life and leisure is becoming increasingly important for Soviet citizens. Discussions  about sex began to spread in the media, for example, in medical journals began to appear articles and tips concerning intimate health. But still, the main channels of obtaining knowledge about the sexual life of this generation are peers, and learning by doing, and by the Soviet censorship, almost everything that came under the concept of "sex life" was still not allowed to discuss publicly. 
	
In a study by S. Chuykina "Life is inseparable from politics: formal and informal rules" sexual "morality in Soviet society" analyzes the state regulation of sexual life in Soviet society and the practice of everyday morality.The author shows the discrepancy formal and everyday morality in the idea of ??romantic courtship and premarital sexual relations. According to the official norm, romantic courtship should not include a sexual relationship, and these values ??correspond to everyday morality until the end of 1960’s. However, the gap ideology and everyday life in the 1970 -80’s has shown that in some social environments premarital sexual experience has become the norm.
	
Researches in field of demography and gender history can shows changing attitudes towards marriage. Analysis out by A.G. Vishnevskii and his research "Demographic modernization of Russia, 1900-2000" shows that the period of the 1970-80’s is characterized by the proliferation of informal pre-marital residence or the so-called "co-existence". A considerable number of people choose to go through the "voluntary union" without official registration. However, the state recognized only registered marriages and other forms of cohabitation of men and women especially the older generation condemned and opposed the foundations of communist morality. Public opinion polls conducted among students in Moscow in 1960, show the change to premarital sexual relations. About half of the respondents to justify the possibility of sexual intercourse before marriage, a third of respondents expressed a neutral judgment, condemnation was a small part. Re-poll in a few years has shown that the amount of justifying the possibility of pre-marital sexual relations only increased. Thus, a massive representation of the Soviet people 1970-80’s extended cohabitation of men and women before marriage with the possibility of a sexual relationship. 

Methodological structureof research is ??social phenomenology, as expressed from A.Schyuts, L.Berger and T.Lukman.They asserted that people interpret reality and objective validity as integral world to them. In this paper investigatesthe idea of ??the rules of premarital and marriage in the USSR and the reflection of these rules in the provincial city of Perm in the 1970-80’s.in this research used the method semi -formalized interview. This method involves personal contact with the respondent, when the order of the questions and their wording may change during the call. This method is used in the study and reconstruction of representations about the rules of marriage in Perm during the 1970-80’s.The second method of project means critical analysis of the source, method of historical reenactment.
Results

Reconstructing a basic understanding of the norms of premarital relationships and marriage in the 1970-80’s, among the urban population of Perm, you may find that the trends that are relevant in the Soviet view, does not correspond to the views in a provincial town. In the process of liberalization in the 1960’s state lost control over the private sphere of life that formed the new concept of marriage. But new everyday practices and norms of premarital relations in Perm are in conflict with the traditional model and continue to comply with conservative ideas.

The period of the 1970-80’s, characterized as a period of stagnation in the political and economic life of the USSR, are in fact a period of significant social and cultural change. Despite the fact that the state was the main agent of the formation of a gender system in the USSR in the 1970-80’s can be traced gap between the norms of official state ideology and the communist ideas of Soviet man marriage and premarital relations. In the result, processof democratization in in the Soviet Union formed the conditions for the transformation of ideas about marriage and family. First, allowing family care and leisure activities in the individual apartments, the government has lost control and urban population could make new form of marriage norms. Secondly, the adoption of the legislation of the Soviet authorities to support the rate of birth and changes in the procedure divorce led to create alternative forms of femininity and life together before marriage. Third, the process of urbanization had made new opportunities for marriage and changes the perception of the optimal age and motives for marriage.