In view of the transformation of public thought that began in the 80's and finally ended after the collapse of the USSR, people everywhere are growing interest in the organization of public spaces and planning of urban development. Topics of expediency of building microdistricts, efficiency of urban renovation, implementation of improvement of social, cultural and living conditions of citizens are being raised more and more often. You should also pay attention to the sharp increase in the number of dilapidated housing across the country. Of course, Soviet buildings sooner or later fall into disrepair, which means that the renovation of neighborhoods, districts, and often entire cities is updated. However, when talking about the renovation of cities, it is impossible not to refer to the Soviet experience of building. So many solutions come from rethinking the Soviet urban heritage.

Another aspect of the researched issue is the Soviet planning tradition. based on them, there is a building during the existence of the Soviet Union. This experience is also being adopted by Russian builders. Questions of creating parks, squares, hospitals, schools and kindergartens in modern Russia are still being solved by reference to the Soviet experience.

The aforesaid considerations raise a research problem, which is as follows: why was the rate of development of the Kamskaya hydroelectric power station district higher than the rate of development of the so-called "working settlement of the Stalin plant number 19"? We are also interested in the moment of architectural embodiment of these different neighborhoods and their social content.
The aim of the study is to trace the evolution of Soviet urban development using the example of specific districts in Perm.
 
In conformity with the research aim the objectives are the following: 
to identify "common" and "special" in the implementation of urban development in the Perm case;
to trace the connection of urban development with the development of industry. 
to conceptualize the most typical features of the construction of "social culture" in the districts of Molotov;

The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is limited to the period from 1930-1957, the Soviet province, in particular the city of Molotov. This article focuses on the importance of creating a new urban environment in the Soviet province-socialist cities, which is Why the main issues of this project proposal are:
1. How much does the urban environment affect citizens?
2. What place do citizens occupy in shaping the ideas of socialist cities?
3.Why do two districts of the city use fundamentally different methods and architectural plans?
4. How big is the difference in the principles of development of the two districts of the city of Molotov?
Professional Significance. The study would be of value and useful because of the lack of full-fledged scientific research related to the development of the city of Molotov in these years. Despite the paucity of local historiography on the topic, there are still a number of popular scientific texts and individual articles.
       
The study also raises issues of renovation of dilapidated housing that remains architectural monuments. The study of this problem can be useful in organizing the space of such structures. And this can be of paramount interest to scholars and students of History and Architectural programs.
Literature review

The basis for this study was a large volume of literature. It includes works on Soviet history, which can be divided into urbanistic works of the 1930s, which set out the principles of the so-called socialist development of cities, as well as works in which the interaction of citizens in the new Soviet reality is described. They will be reviewed consistently.

Issues of urban space organization in the Soviet Union go back directly to the period of the USSR's formation as a state. First of all, this is due to the huge increase in the urban population and, in General, the movement of the public masses in the country. The number of citizens is growing rapidly due to the fact that a lot of yesterday's peasants are moving to the city for a better life.

The English sociologist, Professor at the University of Leeds Zygmunt Bauman (2003) is widely known in European intellectual circles for his work on the development of modern society. According to it, today society is in constant dynamics and is characterized by a special plasticity; many conventions, such as time and place, are destroyed by technological advances, and the mobility of individuals increases. Man gets almost unlimited freedom, which he uses to constantly search for himself: the fluidity of the modernity era provides an extensive choice of ways of development and authorities, to whose opinion one can turn. The observance of moral principles now also becomes the responsibility of the individual, and not of social institutions.

In 1920-1930, many Soviet theorists put forward theories about the construction of a qualitatively new type of city-social city. Leonid Sabsovich (1930) in his book describes in detail how in his understanding the ideal social city should look like. In the book, we find plans for cities, buildings, and even individual apartments.

The research of the most famous sociologist, representative of the Chicago school of sociology, L. Wirth (1937, 1938, 1940, 1964) provides a detailed answer to the question of the place of human in the city, the place of the city in the human mind, and urban thinking. All this is undoubtedly of great importance in the optics of creating new cities in the USSR.

Also widely known American sovietologist sh. Fitzpatrick (1999) in his work describes ways of adapting secular citizens to Stalinism, which in turn is greatly influenced by the environment in which they are located.

A. Sergeicheva's research (2012) is significant in the context of the influence of the urban environment on the person who lives in it. This article discusses in detail a problem that is now becoming particularly significant. This is also very important for my research, because since the 1920s there has been a huge jump in the growth of the urban population in the USSR.

A. Abaimova (2012) in her research describes the historical situation in which it became necessary to think about the optimization of spaces, the most important thing is that this optimization had to clearly correlate with the ideological direction of the party.
Also important from the point of view of local historiography is the book by M. Gurevich (1956) completely devoted to the process of construction of the Kama hydroelectric power station, respectively, and the organization of life of workers involved in the construction site, which for some time was called "the main construction site of the USSR". The texts of A. Terekhin (1970, 1973), as well as the book of Gurevich, is a very important work of local historiography, since it describes in detail the architectural components of the city of Molotov during the development of the theories of socialist cities. 

The use of selected literature on the creation and implementation of the concept of Socialist cities seems useful, as well as the use of theoretical literature on the basics of urbanism and architectural planning of cities in the first half of the XX century.
Methods

Since the work is devoted to the comparative analysis of Soviet architecture of different periods and different functional purposes, as well as to the comparative analysis of social and household content of different districts of the city of Molotov, the comparative analysis of E. Tamanova (2012) is the main method. Comparative analysis involves comparing the details of the phenomenon of Soviet housing construction and highlighting it as typical and atypical. However, the process of comparing a large reservoir of sources is a procedure that must be based on a consistent methodology. For this study, the theory of socialist cities was adapted as a reference system. 
This method helps to trace the evolution of urban development in the Soviet province based on the theory of socialist cities and real archival documents from the inventory of the "working village number 19 of the Stalin factory" and the docket of "MolotovGesStroy". 
Based on Tamanova's theory, we can investigate the creation of a new urban environment in Molotov, with the only difference that we compare two different districts created with an interval of 20 years. Comparative analysis also allows us to trace the differences in the government policy on urban development with the actual state of this process. Content analysis is selected as the method used to work with sources. In the course of the study, a fairly large pool of sources will be studied, from which, using the content analysis method, the most necessary things will be extracted for further comparison based on Tamanova's theory.

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to four specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the "common" and "special" in the implementation of urban planning policy in the city of Molotov in 1940-1957 were identified; then the connection between the ways of building microdistricts and the development of industry was traced; and, finally, the most typical features of the construction of a "social culture" in the microdistricts of Molotov were conceptualized.

In conclusion, I would like to briefly outline the main ideas of the study. The problem of the study is that the modern conditions in which the citizens of the Russian province live are largely formed, just during the formation of these cities as large spaces for new masses of the population, that is, in the first 2-3 decades of the Soviet government (depends on the distance from the capitals and the functional purpose of the city). From here we understand the relevance of the study of the Soviet experience and the Soviet tradition of urban planning. Turning to the problems formed in the course of the study, it should also be said that, indeed, urban space has a huge impact on the people living in it. It is not possible to say that a person and the necessary level of living comfort somehow influenced the formation of the ideas of socialist cities in full, because the human component was not taken into account in the planning of the city at all. The result of comparing two districts of the city of Molotov built for the same purpose, but at different times and with the use of different resources is that one area is still considered exemplary and in some places even elite for living, in view of many factors, such as the layout of streets, courtyards, apartments and architectural and aesthetic component. The other, on the contrary, is now not the most prosperous area, the roots of this problem lie in the pace of construction and financing.