Myth has been an integral part of human’s and society’s life from ancient times till our days. That’s why myth is a grounding of contemporary religion and culture. Religion in its turn considerably affects everyday life of society. It influences culture and policy and develops simultaneously.  So, studying the myth and religion in total gives an idea of their integration mechanisms and formation of social life.

The purpose of the research is to reveal specifics of Orthodoxy in the Kama Region.
      The tasks of the research are the following:
•	to specify concepts of the myth and religion like forms of public consciousness
•	to identify the mythological component in Russian Orthodoxy
•	to analyze specifics of Orthodoxy in the Kama Region

The study would be of value and interest because little has been written that deals with Nathanial Orthodoxy, especially in the Kama Region. This study requires conducting a number of ethnographic researches and means using of archives data.  Numerous of these sources have never been observed, so within framework it is essentially to deal with new information that gives innovative results. 

The research deals with the religious view of Orthodox believers of XX-XXI centuries which were expressed in various archive data and interviews from ethnographic expeditions. This provides the research with for mythological elements within the representative sample from sources which analyzed to grasp roots of such phenomenon as National Orthodoxy.

The research relies on two concepts: myth and religious. For this reason it is very important to clearly recognize that these terms mean in the  investigation, because there are numerous definitions of these terms.
      
The first concept of the research is myth which is very complex and has many scientific approaches to its investigation.  One of the most popular conceptions was formed by the anthropological school, according to which a myth is an attempt of ancient people to explain the word around.  The most important scholars of this school are E. Taylor and A. Lang (Meletinsky, 1998). 
      
The second approach is structural functionalism, one of which founders was B. Malinowski. He regards a myth as a rational form of ensuring of social organization and activity. In other words, a myth is the cornerstone of many cultural phenomena of primitive society and it makes its basis, being embodied in morals, ritual and the social organization (Malinovsky, 1998).
      
There is also the phenomenological approach to research the myth whose founders were A. Losev and E. Eliade. The myth, in their opinion, is not an invention, but pure form reality. Besides, the myth is the key factor forming the person perception of the world and himself. In the research, the  myth is defined according to phenomenological approach, which abstracts from subjective judgments, concerning the studied phenomenon (Losev, 1994). Thus, the myth can be considered separately from influence of science and modern values.
      
Another key term of the research is «religion». The definition of this term is clearer in the phenomenological conception. Phenomenology analyzes religion "as it is given", without judgments of life of its carriers. According to this approach, religion is a special world outlook which is caused by belief in supernatural (Eliade, 1997).

Literature about the observed problem can be divided into three blocks.  The first block contains investigation of Orthodoxy in general. The second block, which is less extensive, represents researches about Slavic religion. And finally, the smallest block of literature includes researches of Orthodoxy in the Kama Region.

A number of researches are devoted to investigation of Orthodoxy. It is possible to distinguish the book by S. N. Bulgakov "Orthodoxy and the State" among them. In this work the author conducts debate with western beliefs and builds the Orthodox Church doctrine considering its hierarchy, sanctity and unity (Bulgakov, 1883).

Other significant work in the field of orthodox religion is research of I. Alfeev "Orthodoxy. History, initial device and dogma of Orthodox Church". In this book the author considers dogmatic and canonically features of Orthodoxy within the historical context (Alfeev, 2008).
      
Besides, it is necessary to note the book written by D. P. Oglitsky "Orthodoxy and western Christianity". The research is written for studying in theological seminaries. It explicitly presents initial, dogmatic and ritual discrepancy with Orthodoxy and other types of Christianity (Oglitsky, 1995). 
      
One should, nevertheless, consider the Christianity from another angle. A. Shmeman in the book «A historical way of Orthodoxy» subjected this issue to scrutiny. The main advantage of the monograph is clear organizational pattern. Thus, the author narrows focus of investigation to key terms of such phenomenon as Russian Orthodoxy. The sections devoted to Orthodoxy spreading in the different countries within a long historical timescale are especially significant in the investigation (Shmeman, 2003).
      
In addition, one of the most renowned scholars of religious studies I.N. Yablokov conducts an investigation in the field of Orthodox Christianity. The study takes place in a monograph «Religion history». A punch line of the study appears in revealing the essential characteristics of Russian Orthodoxy. For instance, the main features of Christian doctrines are considered in the monograph. In the meantime, the author compares Orthodox dogma with Catholicism what is important for forming theoretical basis of the research (Yablokov, 2004).
      
A less extensive historiographic layer is represented by researches of Slavs religion. For instance, there is a research by N. Krinichnaya "Russian mythology: World of folklore images". The author made a large contribution to studying of the Russian folklore and its characters are subjected to influence of alien traditions and Christianity (Krinichnaya, 2004).
      
The new scientific monograph of N. Mitrokhin "À current state and actual problems of Russian Orthodox Church» is devoted to the largest religious organization of Russia, and also the complex analysis of its problems such as quantitative and qualitative structure of believers, relationship of Church with the state, society and other religions and faiths. The research is based on the materials collected for the last eight years. The monograph contains significant data about Russian Church in a current period what helps to identify key factor which influences local religion (Mitrokhin, 2006).
      
The issues concerning mythology and folklore were considered by A. Veselovsky in the monograph "National Representations of Slavs". In this work the author considers in details national representations of Slavs through a prism of their literature, including local legends, received wisdom and beliefs (Veselovsky, 2006).
      
It is impossible to overestimate historical works written by O.M. Rapov especially the study «History of Russian Church».  The author deepened and pushed forward investigation of Christianization of Kievan Rus (Rapov, 1988). This field of study takes the key place in studies of Christianity.
      
Moreover, it is necessary to note A.S. Kaysarov's work "Myths of ancient Slavs" in this historiographical review. The book reveals sources of the national outlook of Slavs and investigates an origin of pagan gods, analyzes pagan religion and national life of Slavs before Christianization (Kaysarov, 1993).
      
And at last, observation of literature on Orthodoxy in Kama Region is conducted. A.V. Chernykh is engaged in studying of orthodox traditions of this territory. His monograph "The Russian National Calendar in Kama Region" is considered in more details. The big amount of ethnographic materials devoted to the subject of national calendar holidays and ceremonies is presented in the book. Materials from expedition collected in various areas of the Kama Region formed the main historiography basis for research. The work reflects household, economic, folklore, ethnolinguistic and mythological traditions of the local society (Chernykh, 2006).
      
Another monograph devoted to national traditions of the Kama Region. This is "Circulation of life: a national calendar of Kama Region" by I. A. Podyukov, which was published in 2001. His investigation is also based on data from ethnographic expeditions in different areas of the Kama Region. There are many facts of national traditions and local mythology in this work (Podyuakov, 2001).
      
One of the most important researches of local Orthodoxy addresses the question of folk art. The book written by N.N. Serebryannikov is devoted to such phenomenon as Perm wooden sculpture. A sculpture collection is also represented in the book as like as study of its origin and its features (Serebryannikov, 1967). This type of folk art shows existence of Slavic mythology in modern Christian religion.
      
Further earlier, but not less significant work "World around in the traditional outlook of Russian peasants of Central Ural Mountains" by G. N. Chagin was considering. The book analyses a number of major problems of the traditional spiritual heritage of the population of Central Ural Mountains relying on oral stories, supervisions from expeditions, graphic, archival and published sources. It studies national knowledge and superstitions, calendar customs and ceremonies, national ethics, etc (Chagin, 1988).

In the framework of the research I aimed to have under observation various approaches to treating National Orthodoxy in the Kama Region. To conduct this investigation I will rely on two methods are the method of critical analysis of the source and the method of direct contemplation. 

The key feature of the research is treated in using of archive documents and data from ethnographic expeditions. These types of historical sources are ultimately subjective, so they may have discrepancy with real facts. I will use the method of critical analysis to provide a solid grounding for the research and to remove contradiction between different sources. This method has two main tools: external and internal criticism of a source. External criticism includes the analysis of external signs of the available material for the purpose of establishment of its probable origin and authenticity. The written source needs to be subjected to treating regarding its probable authorship, time and a place of creation, and also paper, handwriting, language. Besides, I need to check existence of amendments and inserts. Internal criticism deals not with a form, but with the content. Text and author is identity, if it is established, should be analyzed. As a result, only part of information can be considered rather reliable if it becomes clear that the author had no obvious bases to distort the information. Thus, all received historical information will be subjected to scrutiny.
      
The other applicable the method is method of direct contemplation. It is impossible to overestimate importance of this method in the phenomenological approach which is employed in the research. The direct contemplation does not look for the rational for different facts. I neglect impact of science and overlook modern values. Application of this method gives a chance to adopt a position of "the pure observer" to the studied object, addressing primary experience.

After conducting the research I expect to get certain outcomes. Firstly, within the framework of the research I will refine concepts of myth and religion which are relevant for the problem area of the research. It helps to avoid misinterpretation from other scholars. In the meantime, I suppose to reveal mythological components in Russian Orthodox Christianity. Eventually, I will reach results in three aspects: ceremonies, celebrations and household beliefs. I assume that some ceremonies in national Orthodoxy contain elements of mythological outlook. For example, commemoration for the dead has similarities with funeral feasts of ancient Slavs. Besides, many traditional celebrations have features of mythology such as burning a scarecrow on Maslenitsa. I suppose, Christians have many omens which come from ancient beliefs. For instance, a broken mirror or black cats bring failure. Moreover, some people knock on wood to avoid misfortune. Ancient Slavs consider that trees give pleading energy. Meaning of these traditions has been forgotten to the current period, but people continue to do them unconsciously.  In general, all these signs are based on a belief in supernatural power of things. The work also suggests revealing specifics of Orthodoxy in the Kama region. I hope to reach it by using local sources and comparing results with data from other region of Russia.

The Christianity was acquired by our ancestors slowly and superficially. They didn't understand meaning of orthodox sacraments and ceremonies, trying to explain them within mythological outlook. For this reason, a mixture of the myth and religion was formed. People sought to transform abstract Orthodoxy into a physical form therefore divine force was extended to animals, herbs, trees, various subjects, elements and natural phenomena. There was a sacralization of environment, what was honored as like as the Christian God.  Existence of supernatural force at everything is one of the brightest characteristics of the myth. Numerous pre-Christian mythological plots and images didn't disappear, and got new sense due to this synthesis. The same processes are traced in other Russian regions. It is possible to draw a conclusion that Christianity in Russia has no special regional characteristics. Thus, the purpose of the research to reveal specifics of Orthodoxy in the Kama Region is achieved. 