After the end of World War II, the state of the population of the USSR was deplorable. A huge number of families lost their breadwinners and children. People had almost nothing to eat, and nothing to dress, people wanted relaxation and beauty after the collapse of the war, which led to the emergence of a hedonistic lifestyle in which the highest good is pleasure. It was in the post-war period, at the beginning of the Cold War, that the first Soviet subculture stiliagi emerged. They began to appear due to the fact that soldiers with various “trophies” began to return from Europe: records, including American jazz, clothes. Also, from the allies in the war - the USA and Great Britain, and “captured” German films, foreign films got into the USSR, through which one could see how the heroes of films were dressed, hear “another” music. So, in the closed information field of the Soviet Union, began to leak information that life could be different, and this life was very engaging to young people. Young people wanted to dance, dress beautifully and listen to jazz. 

Stiliagi were a unique phenomenon in the USSR, but not the only ones in the world who invented their own style in the post-war period. It was a large international trend - the emergence of a hedonistic way of life after the war. But in the USSR, such lifestyle was accessible only to a rich minority and the upper middle class. Acculturation is a term used to refer to a process in which a group of people with different cultures, coming into direct long-term contact, learn elements of other cultures. It will show the changes in the culture of Soviet youth in the 1960 - 1970 years, which occurred under the influence of stiliagi. 

The chronological framework of the study is the period from the late 1940s until the 1970s. The time line is due to the study of the image of dudes in the Soviet Union, which appeared in the USSR in the late 1940s. The second border is due to the period when a new movement of the hippie’s subculture had not yet begun, which flourished in the USSR in the middle of 1970s. 

The main purpose of this study is to describe what had a significant impact on the formation of the behavior of Soviet youth after the disappearance of the dignity subculture.

The research aims:
1. To recreate the image of the stilagi;
2. Consider what has changed in the behavior of Soviet youth;
3. To consider the reasons why the signs of dudes, previously condemned by Soviet society, have become the norm for youth culture.
Delimitation of the study. This article is mainly devoted to the influence that dudes had on the youth of the USSR in the 1960-1970s. That is why the main issues of this project proposal are:
1. What was the youth before the stiliagi?
2. What were the stiliagi?
3. What has changed in the behavior of young people since the era of stiliagi has passed?

In domestic historiography, this topic has been studied very little. A similar situation in foreign historiography. The transition from one culture to another has not been considered, although recently there has been an interest in the culture of youth in the USSR. 

The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to the cultural policy of the state, or the interaction of youth among themselves.

The problem of the subculture of dudes and the culture of youth in the USSR is considered more by domestic researchers. A study by Kimerling A. S., “A platform against galoshes, or dudes on the streets of the Soviet city,” examines the role of dudes who changed the cultural space of the Soviet city and declared forbidden individualistic values.

Brusilovskaya L. in the article “The culture of everyday life in the era of the Thaw: style metamorphoses” describes the change in mood and culture in Soviet society after the death of I. Stalin. Describes why trophy cinema influenced teenagers, deideologization of culture. She writes that “emancipation” in art: in poetry, music, literature led to the “emancipation” of society itself. "Sixties" filled the meaning of everyday life, the identity of each person. 

If we turn to the English literature on this topic, we should mention the study of Edele M. Strange Young Men in Stalin’s Moscow: The Birth and Life of the Stiliagi traces the birth of a negative image of stiliagi in Soviet society, and in general their evolution. He suggests that the problems of class, generation, and gender in the post-war environment led to stiliaghnichestvo. Edele writes that for the first time the image of the dude was depicted in the satirical journal Crocodile in 1949, where the most important features of the subculture were highlighted: his own clothing style, jargon and manners. Most importantly, that they were not like ordinary people. 

Earlier references to the phenomenon of conscious youth fashion on the pages of Crocodile allow us to look at the formation of a new way of life for young people in the Soviet Union. In the 1945 drawing, two dandies are sitting on the couch and talking about love, they already have many attributes of future styles: reminded hair, a jacket with wide shoulders and a colorful tie. The description in the 1946 note also echoes the subsequent image of dudes. Some people enjoy spending a lot of time, money, and energy on clothes, hanging out in a cocktail lounge on Gorky Street, dancing around 2 a.m. around the radio and owning the latest recordings of foxtrot. The person described in this part wears a pullover, the color of a chrysanthemum, an "impossible" hat, a large ring, and a watch on which it is impossible to see the time. At that time, this wasn’t a stiliaga yet, but there are many similarities: dance mania, preoccupation with fashion, full of clothing and relaxation, strange colors, green pants.

Gorski B. in his article “Manufacturing dissident : stiliagi, Vasilii Aksenov, and the dilemma of self-interpretation” writes about the dialogic relationship between youth subcultures and official discourse in the postwar USSR. He argues that this relationship produced the conceptual categories that later allowed dissidents like Aksenov V. to articulate positions of dissent. He traces how the subculture of stiliagi of the 1940s and 1950s created an ugly identity through material practices that avoided ideological definitions. Then he studied the reaction to the dignity subculture in the official press, this author interprets the youth in the framework of the discourse of power. Gorski also writes that in the works of V. Aksenov the conflict of youth and official discourse are dramatized. He notes that in his works Aksenov developed a strategy for the self-interpretation of youth, redirecting the categories of power and reformulating the apolitical status of alienation as a form of dissent.

Tsipursky G “Jazz, Power, and Soviet Youth in the Early Cold War, 1948-1953” This study examines the history of jazz in the USSR at the beginning of the Cold War. This essay sheds light on the role of jazz in the cultural struggle. In this work, you can find information about how the war of cultures began during the Cold War, when the Communist Party condemned jazz as the music of the "foreign bourgeoisie".  Instead of jazz, there was a call to listen to patriotic Soviet music. This article is interesting in that it tells about the difficult fate of Western music in the USSR. It also tells about the youth culture of jazz enthusiasts and explores the impact of anti-jazz initiatives on mass cultural institutions and the daily lives of young people. In addition, to understand the history of jazz in the Soviet Union, one should consider on the book of Starr F. “Red and Hot”, which describes the life of jazz in the Soviet Union, based on interviews with Soviet musicians. Starr suggests looking at this problem from the inside, from the world where people live, and not from the point of view of the Communist Party.

To understand the mood of young people in the post-war society, it is worth taking into account the book Raleigh, D. “Soviet Baby Boomers: an Oral History of Russia's Cold War Generation”, which looks at the transformation of Russia into modern urban society through people's life stories. These people openly talk about their past and try to comprehend it. In this work, one can see a complex narrative included in the historical realities of the Cold War and destalinization, as well as the transformation of Soviet society. 

To understand the construction of the social discourse of Soviet youth, we can turn to  H. Russia's Youth and its Culture: A nations constructors and constructed. The author of this book suggests considering youth activity not as a challenge to the system, but as a process of constructing oneself and one's identity. Pilkington writes that the construction of values takes place in a "party", in a group of people who come together and who share certain interests. The author notes that the "party" serves as an environment of informal communication. He shares 3 forms of "embodied communication": music, style, dance and play, where dance and music are elements of communication in a party. 

A book written by Stites tries to tell about a different culture in Soviet society. He begins by comparing the concepts of “popular culture” and “mass culture” and concludes that in the Soviet Union the culture of the general population cannot be considered either completely imposed by the Soviet ideological machine or completely independent of it. The author traces the development of folk forms of entertainment from the beginning of the 20th century to perestroika and covers such phenomena as popular music and its stars, dance, cinema, popular literature, pop non-musical genres, a poster, anecdote, etc. At all stages, the author analyzes the connection between popular culture and politics and ideology. 

Since most of the work is based on the study of films, it is worth paying attention to the book of  Kenez P., in which the author writes about the political use of films. The Bolsheviks believed that cinema would become the main means of transmitting political and social messages to Soviet society. This book examines how explicit and implicit messages have changed over time and helps to understand the evolution of society in the USSR. 

In this study, we will use the methodology of Thumwald R. Thumwald considers acculturation as a process, not a separate event. He is busy exploring how one culture takes cultural elements from another. In the procedural aspect, there are several points: change of function; the variability of the framework for the adoption of different cultural traits; partial dependence of the selection of elements on contact conditions; unforeseen consequences of adapting new features; interaction between traditionally significant groups of determinants; analysis of the circumstances of the contact; the degree of reaction to contact (from the complete rejection of the unknown to non-critical perception, the complete assimilation and formation of new cultural entities).

This methodology allows us to trace the process of acculturation of Soviet youth with the subculture of stiliagi.

As a result, the goals and objectives set out in the beginning with the mentioned methodology should be achieved. 
Firstly, the main features of the dudes will be determined on the basis of personal diaries, literary works and films corresponding to the period of the subculture of stiliagi.

Secondly, the process of acculturation of Soviet youth will be traced after the era of stiliagi has passed.
These findings will provide insight into the causes and process of how abnormal behavior patterns of dudes became normal after 1963.

Summing up the issues considered earlier, it should be noted that this study contributes to the study of the subculture of dudes and Soviet youth, from the end of the 1940s to the 1970s. The process of acculturation of Soviet youth by dudes will be considered.
Thus, this study will make it clear that the previously condemned image, which was accompanied by a genestic lifestyle, by the 1970s had become the norm that youth aspired to.