The problem of soviet school studying is considered ordinary issues in Russian historiography. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and even foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question. On the one hand it is possible to consider soviet school from the authoritative view, on  the other hand, this issue can be seen in the everyday life perspective. Both of these approaches have the school as research focus in common, but their main difference is sources (public and private). It is not useful to consider public document for everyday life study, because they do not have  information about everyday life. In this paper, I would like to combine these to approaches.

Another aspect of research, which make the concept of soviet school, which stand out among other historical matters, is that we try to consider not only everyday life, but imperious view. We can make good conclusion, only by comparison ideology and everyday life. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern history studies have special appreciation for everyday life studying as they reflect another dimension of soviet school. 

The problem of soviet school studying has been widely investigate over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack information about teacher. The most of historians  tends to deal only with ideology.

It is hypothesized, that the analysis of the official reports, newspapers and films will reveal information about the ideal image of the soviet teacher, but they do not have information about everyday life. To solve this problem, we should use other types of sources. 
By comparing the text of the protocol of party meeting and text of departmental orders, we can find a significant difference, in which everyday life can be found.

The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: disputes of the fact that scholars have analyzed the image of soviet teachers there are few studies about young soviet teachers  of 50s, and even less are there researches on professional and political socialization. The study of these issues in regard of teachers activity  will contribute to elaborating the problem of soviet school in the beginning of destanalization period. The problem determines the purpose of the research.  The aim of the research is to reveal  the characteristics of teachers professional and political  socialization. For the research we use such historians source like newspapers,  departmental reports and party documents. the In conformity with the research purpose objectives are the following: 
To analyze historians researches in the field of soviet school. 
To analyze sources, used for this research
To construct an perfect pattern of late Stalin socialization of school teachers.
To construct practices of political and professional preparation of soviet teachers.

The research has time delimitations, namely, it is limited by the early period of destalinization, that is between 1952-1956. 1952 is the last year of Stalin's life. After his death begins the early process of desalinization. The early period of destalinizations ended in 1956 after the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It is important to analyze this period because we can find several changes in policy, which could affect the system of education and teachers.  

The researches dates back to the 20th century. Attempts to critically assess everyday life was made by Berger and Luсkman in The Social Construction of Reality. They furnished their edition of this source with a paper, which gave a broad theoretical basis for further research. For an up-to-date analysis, it is logical to turn to more recent publications by Oleg Leibovich. The researcher examines the issues of correlation between ideology and everyday life. The way of finding everyday life is to compare ideological and personal documents

We cannot consider the school, without paying attention to the situation in the Soviet Union. One of the main events in this period was the amnesty in 1953. In accordance with this decree about a million people were released from prisons. 

In March 1953 the soviet press was criticized by Georgy Malenkov. It can be considered as an important stage in destalinization because the mention of Stalin in Newspapers was reduced. In the early period of destalinization was observed the conflict inside the party. The main actors were Nikita Khrushchev, Georgy Malenkov and Lavrentiy Beria. Lavrentiy Beria was arrested in 1953 for organizing criminal trials (Doctors' plot). After that began the struggle between Georgy Malenkov and Nikita Khrushchev, as a result of which Khrushchev won in this struggle.  Khrushchev read the text of secret report on February 25, 1956, in which the Stalin's cult of personality was criticized. 

Investigations on soviet everyday life include work by Sheila Fitzpatrick and Elena Zubkova. They specialize in the study of the Stalin period. These scholars noticed some phenomena that are characteristic of that period. These phenomena are the following: poverty among the population, high crime rate, fatherlessness after the great patriotic war, shortage of most goods etc. All this gives researchers the representation of ​​the study period and it is vital for following researches.

It is accepted to study soviet school from 2 points of view. We can define these approaches as a «view inside» and «view outside». The view inside is understood as microhistory. In this case, historians consider everyday life cases. For example, they can investigate the conflict between student and teacher, lifeworld (Lebenswelt) of teacher etc. The «view outside» is the approach, that is used to analyze educational police, the community of teacher at the macrolevel.

By researching school everyday life historians need to take into account different types of sources. As an example, we can take research by S.G. Leontieva and K.A. Maslinskiy. In their research, was explored everyday life in soviet school. Their study examines the texts of «orders of the director» Based on the texts, the authors try to reconstruct school everyday life through the eyes of a teacher. Orders of the director is a rare source, which makes the study of everyday life possible. 

Major research was written by E. Thomas Ewing. He attempts to reconstruct the everyday life of a soviet teacher. He pays attention to how Soviet teachers reacted to power directives. He also analyses the teacher role in the period of collectivization, repression, «Vsevobuch». The main problem of his research is the misuse of sources. He aimed to reconstruct the everyday life of a soviet teacher. His research was based on periodicals. For this, he was criticized by A. Chaschuchin. In his opinion, it is not possible to reach that goal, just because soviet newspapers do not include information, helping to reconstruct everyday life.

Another paper was written by Veselova. Her article deals with the image of carnival heroes. The main sources are interviews with people who went through to soviet school. Veselova analyzes the role of carnival in a child's life.

The ideal image of the teacher comes into the view of scientists. What does a teacher look like? Iveta Ķestere answers this question. In her research, she provides information about interpretation of teacher image in the Latvian student perspective. 

Many works are dedicated specifically to the rural teacher. As an example, we can consider the research by O.R. Nikolaev. He concludes that soviet rural teacher had to perform many social roles, the teacher must be at the same time a judge, propagandist, agent between government and students.

Delbert H. Long also specializes in the study of rural teachers. He researched the teacher working conditions at school. And concluded that they were of poor quality.

There is no reason to itemize all written works. listed examples demonstrated that the school everyday life was researched sufficiently. A large historiographic base already exists.

As declared, the second approach to soviet school study is defined as «view outside». Сcollective monograph «Острова утопии» includes several interesting works dedicated to the Soviet school. This paper aims to research the educational policy in the Soviet Union. Maria Maiofice tries to consider struggle with formalism, individual approach to the student, and struggle with unsatisfactory grades. It was supposed that the teacher should deal with low digestibility, for this, it is necessary to know about students weaknesses (индивидуальный подход)

Another important part of the Soviet education system is the idea of polytechnic(политехнизация). Polytechnic means, that student had to learn the basics of production. Originally the Soviet school was developed as a labour school. This distinguished soviet school from the pre-revolutionary school. Over time, this idea was not developed, and the idea of polytechnic turned into party cliché.

A large number of works were devoted to studies of the Soviet language. Here can be highlighted the research by Alexei Yurchak. Work « it was forever until it was no more» is based on political text. His research has shown that political language began to turn into a cliched form after the death of Stalin.

Another important aspect of school study is an analysis of textbooks. One of the significant work in this field was written by Marc Ferro. He attempts to analyze how history is taught to children in different countries, he noticed, that the narrative of history has changed following the ideology of the state. 

The same analysis was presented by Vladimir Rouvinski. He focused attention on a textbook in the ethnic region. In these textbooks, the local history was closely connected to soviet history.

Thus, we can clearly see, that soviet school was properly examined. There are many materials, devoted to everyday life, the image of the teacher, the political situation in USSR etc.

The study would be of value and interest because many issues regarding soviet school during the destalinization period have not been studied properly yet. However, in recent years, considerable attention has been paid to the area of school anthropology. Thus, this research will fit into the contemporary historiographical trend. 

The work also explores the possibilities of the microhistorical approach applied to the soviet teacher. It is possible to research this period, using not only every day life studies, but macrohistory.

Since the work uses the protocol of the party meetings, the reports of Molotov Pedagogical University and periodicals, the primary method is comparative history. It means, that we will compare different types of historical sources. By finding difference in these types of sources we can observe the everyday life practices. Also, the microhistorical method will be used. Via this approach we can find some features, that which cannot be detected on macrolevel. 

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to four specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, the main features of historiography will be determined. Then, source analysis will be given. Newspaper, films, departmental reports, protocols of the party meetings are used as the main sources. All these sources are related to the teacher community. 

After that, the analyze of the perfect model of teacher socialization in the late Stalin period will be proposed. This model is intended to show the pattern, which must be followed. These findings will serve to establish diverse patterns of the practice of professional and political socialization in the early period of destalinization. In the end, we can identify trends in the social and cultural dynamics of a soviet teacher in the first half of the 50s. However, it should be mentioned that the implications presented in the study do not aspire to be incontestable and will be open to further academic debates.

To summarize all the questions considered earlier, the research presented contributes significantly to the study of the Soviet school. Mechanism of establishing a connection between the authority and the everyday life are explored on the data from a newspaper, departmental reports, movies, protocols of a party meeting. The image of the perfect model of teacher socialization can be described as the teacher is a person, who is constantly studying, the teacher must read a newspaper to improve political literacy, she must be a party member. 

Thus, the results of the research prove the hypothesis, that there was some perfect pattern of the teacher political and professional socialization, which were different in comparison with everyday life practices.
The study gives a new view of the problem of a soviet teacher.