Clothing as one of the basic elements of everyday life has certain semantics. So, after considering the evolution of costumes and its symbolic sm?, it becomes available to understand many historical processes and trends. Even more evident the transformations caused by historical events and challenges can be viewed in the mirror of art. And "eidetic" property of Greek art, i.e. the desire for visibility, is a good basis to use a huge database of visual material. Thus, in this paper vase painting serves as the foundation for the reconstruction of wear’s special features.

The purpose of the research is to study the development of ancient Greek women’s wear reflected in vase painting and the factors, which influenced its modifications. And to achieve the purpose it is essential to carry out the following objectives:
1. to analyze visual sources about female Greek costumes;
2. to determine differences in the images of women’s costumes, that emerged under various influence;
3. to reconstruct iconographic schemes, that were used by ancient Greek vase painters according to the type of a depicted person or situation.
     
The general objective is to expand the field of study in depiction of female Greek costumes on vases. The specific objective is to reveal features of iconography of the female Greek dress according to the type of the depicted scene or a character.

Since the 80s of the XX century the interest of historians to everyday life of an ordinary person and pictorial sources as independent resources of knowledge of the past continues to increase. Such attention to the microworld of an individual, based on the study of visual objects created by him, revolutionized many humanities and social sciences, and in particular, the antiquity. Thus, the scientific relevance of this paper is to explore the theme of everyday life of ancient people using visual sources.
     
The problem is that the extracted from visual sources information cannot be considered as completely reliable. Not only could the garb of ancient Greek women be subjected to the influence of historical events ïîðÿäîê ñëîâ. The ways of costume presentation on vases were also under the influence of many factors: the author's vision and desires of consumers, traditions and norms, fashion, etc. Furthermore, there are difficulties in interpreting the images on vases due to lack of a clear methodology. Therefore, the present study may serve as an example for ways of analyzing visual sources.
     
Definitions of key terms. An ancient Greek vase painting is a decorative painting vessel, performed by the ceramic method: with using special paints and followed by firing (Blavatsky, 1953).
     
Iconography is the branch of art history which studies the identification, description, and the interpretation of the content of images (L. Llewellyn-Jones, 2007)
     
Semantics is the study of meaning, focused on the relation between signifiers, like words, phrases, signs, and symbols, and what they stand for; their denotation (Serikova, 2010).
     
The historiography of the Greek women clothes’ topic of the late archaic and classical periods (VI - IV centuries B.C.) is divided into four basic stages: the first stage – from the 1760s until the end of the XIX century; the second stage – from the beginning of the XIX century until the 1980s; the third stage – from the 1980s until the end of XX century and the fourth stage – from the end of XX century until now. At each stage the focus of researches was different. 
     
First investigations were devoted to study and classification of samples of ancient Greek art according to various historical periods, as well as to revealing the history of different styles. Art was seen as an organic part of Greek society. First of all, it should be mentioned that the outstanding work of the German scholar Winckelmann (1764) allows on the basis of the study of Greek art’ products, classified in different historical periods, to select features and historical development of women's clothing. Also the article by Jane Ellen Harrison (1886) stands out for its importance among others. In this article the author traces the transformation of iconography of widespread scenes "court of Paris" and creates a classification of vessels with in this theme according to the most radical changes in details and iconographic schemes.
     
The second stage of research is characterized by analysis of several spheres of life in the ancient world, especially, cultural and religious aspects. Thus, the study of the English classical scholar Eric Robertson Dodds (2000) is based on examples from the writings of ancient Greek historians, poets and philosophers. He draws parallels with the real cult of the Greeks. And on the basis of the results made in the work, it is possible to hypothesize that female figures in the iconography were projected from real priestesses or Dionysus’ female admirers.
     
In the period between 1910 and 1980 a historical development of costumes of different nations in general caused a great interest among researchers. Scolars have studied and described the costumes in different historical periods - from ancient Egypt to contemporary apparel. During these years there were several popular scientific monographs (Zakharzhevskaya, 2006; Kaminskaya, 1977; Kireeva, 1970; Komissarzhevsky, 1998), an important place in which is allocated by the study of the ancient Greek costume, its’ transformation in connection with the historical development of society, and analysis of internal and external influences. At the same time researches devoted to the problems of Greek art continue to emerge. Many works of art were described for the first time. The concept of general development of art in ancient Greece from its genetic relationship with Mycenaean culture to the Hellenistic period is put forward; features of women's suits in connection with the type of the depicted character, a sequence of changing of painting’s styles are distinguished in the works by Blavatsky (1953), Whipper (1972) and Edwards (1960). It is necessary to distinguish a fundamental study about Greek painted vases of the Soviet historian and archaeologist Blavatsky (1953), who devoted his life to ancient artifacts of the Northern Black Sea. The work “The history of ancient painted pottery” covers the period from the end of II thousand B.C. to the Hellenistic period; thus, it allows to trace the change of iconographic canons of women's apparel. The scholar also analyzes the factors that influenced the transformation that occurred in the vase painting. Such cultural innovation, as replacement of the black-figure style by the red-figure one, the birth of Attic tragedy, as well as important historical events, are considered by him from the viewpoint of providing an irreversible influence.
     
The researches referring to the period from the 1980s till the end of the XX century affect the problem of interpreting the meaning of attributes and symbols of apparel in Greek vase painting. Several scholars (Halm-Tisserant (1986), Hedreen (1994), Hartswick (1993) and Marx (1993)) attempt to trace the influence of historical events on the transformation of iconographic traditions. As for Guy Hedreen (1994), in his work scholar analyzes complexities of the attributes’ iconography and clothing of nymphs. He shows that nymphs (not maenads) were depicted on ancient vases and that changes in the iconography of the nymphs, occurring at the end of the VI century B.C. in Attic red-figure vase painting are primarily associated with the development of the Athens dramatic genre of satire. It is also necessary to mention the study of Patricia Marx (1993), who addressed the issue of gorgoneion appearance (a symbol with a large semantic load) on the clothing of the goddess Athena, displayed in visual sources. The scholar gives an evidence of a large semantic meaning of this symbol as from the narrative sources as on the grounding of lists of the most visible vases scenes. 
     
The fourth stage, covering the end of the XX century and continuing to the present day, is characterized by studying of image’s features of women's costume, depending on the tradition, sacred rituals and everyday foundations of ancient Greeks. The works by Marinovic (2000), Skrzhinskiy (2010), Yukhneva (2012) and Cleland (2007) are most revealing. These investigations trace the influence of religious traditions and policies of the Athenians to create and change the image of their patron goddess. The works are constructed on the analysis of literary and epigraphic sources, as well as on the study of material culture, especially Fine Art. 
     
Meaningful conclusions were drawn by the Russian researcher E. V. Yukhneva in her article devoted to such part of antiquity as marriage. This does not only allow us to trace the history of the images of the wedding ritual analyzing ceramic vessels, but also to understand the function of the images of goddesses and their apparel. 
     
Modern researchers devoted their works to the everyday female costume (in particular, a collective work «Women in the Classical World: Image and Text» (1994), which determines the characteristics of the image of women's clothing, depending on the type of the depicted plot - ritual, daily scene and etc., and trace some fashion effect), and to the analysis of apparel’s features depending on depicted figures. There are Greaves (2004), Larson (2001) and Marx (2003). As for the work of L. Cleland, G. Davies, L. Llewellyn-Jones «Greek and Roman dress from A to Z» (2007), this bibliographical dictionary helps to understand the details of women's costumes and accessories. This work is not just the analysis of parts of the garments, but also of social meanings they carry. It is important that the analysis is based on data from of ancient art, literature and archeology, and they are accompanied by links.

The principles of historicism and objectivity relying on historical sources and their comparison to each other are the basis of the present study. Both general scientific and special historical methods account for the theoretical basis of the investigation.

The historical-genetic method allows in the greatest measure to get closer to the reflection of clothes’ real history on vases, consistently to reveal the clothes’ features and its changes in the process of the historical development, to show causal relationships, and some regulations of its evolution. With the help of the comparative historical method the stages in the development of the imaged females’ apparel was identified and correlated, the changes that occurred were determined and the development trends were marked. In addition, the typological method was used to discover and clarify the temporal aspect of an essentially homogeneous set of visual sources and divide them into specific categories, which allowed systematizing and streamlining some of the data about historical events and processes.
     
The method of visualization has become a landmark technique for the present study. Serikova very accurately notes advantages of the visual method for transmitting of information that is presented in the fact that this method was deprived of the barriers that arouse due to ignorance of foreign languages (Serikova, 2010); at the same time the visual image is clearer and extremely accurate. The absence of a specific methodology for the study of ancient vase painting is one of the main problems of the theory of visualization, while this unique and informatively capacious source requires special methods of its analysis and interpretation. So, in this paper the achievements of the founders of this method (Giovanni Morelli and John Davidson Beazley (XIX - the beginning of the XX centuries) and techniques of contemporary researchers (Petrakova (2009, 2013), Yukhneva (2012), Metz (2008) and others) have been applied.
     
As the outcomes it is expected to achieve the following results. Firstly, a comprehensive analysis of multiple catalogs of antique vases on the subject of women's apparel will be made (in particular, analysis of the Beazley Archive). Secondly, after the first stage it will be possible to determine the variability of female apparel, and the reasons for differences. That is to say causal connections and regularities will be traced, so sacral, social, political, temporal and others influences would be considered. And thirdly, iconographic schemes will be reconstructed, and for each of the female type (furthermore, for each type of the case) the specific methods of imaging will be clearly identified. Thus, according to the study, it will be possible to compare each iconographic sample and to trace the severity of the following to the canon given by vase painters, the popularity of some type of the character’ imaging in a certain dress and with particular attributes, change of clothes’ images as a result of turning events in history.
     
After considering the features of women's apparel in ancient Greek vase painting, we can conclude that there were several iconographic schemes. These models are subjected to changes under the influence of various factors: from a transformation of real apparel to an influence of ancient Greek’s motives to deliver a particular message to the audience.
     
Thus, the method for depiction of the goddess Athena was especially strictly observed (in particular, on the Panathenaic vases), but it was also changed gradually. So, in 575-550 B.C. masculine arms was added by feminine “peplos”. The “aegis” (as a sign of protection Zeus) becomes more semantically important by including the “gorgoneion”, which serves as the most striking indicator of the volatility of the situation in policy of VI - IV centuries B.C. As for the other Olympic goddesses, their apparel has not so striking features. The greater role in transformation of their clothing’s depiction belongs to changing technology of drawing. Deities maenads were depicted with such attributes as a leopard skin, a snake or a Tierce; while nymphs were depicted on vases with more serious subjects (e.g., wedding procession), they have longer dresses, which sometimes stylized under environment. Apparel of Amazons includes elements of masculine and feminine garment, Greek and Oriental costume simultaneously. The imaging of mortal women is noteworthy that the figure shows a completely hidden.
     
So, this study confirms the importance of working with visual sources. Because antique vases are unique and reliable source not only for reconstruction of the clothing of ancient Greeks, but also the most valuable information carriers, which in many ways complement the currently available knowledge obtained from written sources. 