The last few decades of the 19th and the first two of the 20th century were marked by the processes of modernisation with Russia being no exception. These fast, often sharp changes transformed not only economy and state but also society. People’s perception of the world changed and with that and new technologies different types of practices emerged. These changes often brought the feeling of frustration of today’s time and a wish to reform or eradicate the whole existing system. The sentiment of retaining traditional culture was also widespread. However, modernisation occurred to be not the only thing to worry about. As is known the beginning of the 20th century was the age of turmoil, revolutions and war. This experience had an influence on people and left them traumatized.

Our main goal is to define and describe adaptive practices caused by the modernisation in the beginning of the XX century. To achieve this aim there are several smaller tasks to be carried out. Firstly, we need to determine the main practices established in our chronological period. Secondly, we need to identify the main features and types of reading practices. Finally, we need to define whether already mentioned practices altered during the times of violence and social catastrophe brought by three Russian revolutions, the Civil War and World War I.

Delimitations of the Study. In our paper we used diaries as the main source material. We chose them according to several criteria: chronological (the first two decades of the 20th century), region (mainly central Russia, the Volga region and the Urals) and diary’s author status (citizen was a necessary requirement). A significant part of our research would be devoted to the role of reading in the life of citizens. In our opinion, the growth of literacy, gradual spread of books and periodicals and thus, the emergence of widespread practice of reading and reflection upon what you read are some of the most striking features of modernization, in other words, a particular part of social and cultural change. Traditional society was gradually turning into modern, and one of the key elements in this transformation was book. We are also interested in other things. What did people read? How did this indicator vary from one social group to another? Did people read for their own pleasure or it was merely a form of social representation? How texts were interpreted? What about interpretive communities? These are only a bunch of question an author could ask his source.

Speaking about the second decade of the 20th century we cannot avoid the topic of war, tragedy and social catastrophe. This should be taken into account when we analyse our sources, especially after the October revolution happened. It was a demarcation line when the state collapsed and the social order began to crumble. A lot of reflection could be found in diaries about this topic and authors often describe their own experience and emerging new practices.

Literature dedicated to chosen topic is diverse. In order to understand the vast body of literature dedicated to practices one of the most useful is a work by Volkov and Kharkhordin (2008). As diaries are a peculiar type of source we should take into account its distinguishable features. A good example of covering such a subject we could find in the works of Blaak (2009) and Hellbeck (2009). Hellbeck is interested in power discourse in the soviet diaries of 1930s and how people through diaries tried to re-shape their own identity in the form of "the New Soviet man". Apart from giving the outline of how to work with diaries, Blaak tries to determine in which way early modernity was embodied in these human’s blueprints and the way they constructed selves and "time" they were living in. The modernization cannot occur in vacuum; therefore the historical context is significant to us. The work of Zmeev (2005) describes Russian intelligentsia in the late Imperial period focusing on the topic of intelligentsia myth existence. Stites (1991) states the problem of women’s place in Imperial Russia and attitudes towards their rights. Nicholas II’s times were also the times of reforms. Davydov (2016) analyzes the vast body of documentation and sequence of decisions made under Vitte and Stolypin. Solovyov (2017) is concerned with existing practices of state’s law making and how this process was conducted between tsar and officials. Narsky (2001) is mainly concerned with the people’s everyday life in the period of social turmoil and destruction of all known social norms and institutes. He also analyses the existing practices established at the time of the Russia Civil War and Revolution. Smith (2012) describes Russian elite which after the events of Revolution was put in danger. An interesting work is one of Heretz (2008) directly concerned with traditional culture and its strong manifestation and retaining in the face of impending modernity. 

The last group is consisted of works dedicated to the history books, libraries, reading and sociology of reading. To understand how literature’s institutes worked and how they fit into society, the work of Gudkov and Dubin (1994) would be useful here. A detailed account of reading’s history in pre-revolutionary Russia is given by Abram Reitblat (2009). It also holds a significant amount of information concerning with main literary trends, popularity of different authors and libraries’ place in society. Flint (1993) does the same with the reading of British women in the 19th century. Finally, Finnish historian Hellman (2013) focuses on children's literature, its trends and main works in various historical periods.

We use a comparative method. It is a technique used in order to highlight the differences between two or more subjects by preliminary criteria. Krom (2015) in his work dedicated to comparative history provides a classic interpretation made by Marc Bloch. According to Bloch this method is needed, firstly, to find out previously unknown features, and, secondly, to state the sequence of borrowing and adaptation. Finally, the comparative method provides with explanation the reasons of phenomenon. 

The term "practice" is the main one we used in our work. In our paper we use it in the interpretation of Bourdieu. According to Bourdieu (2015) there is field which is consisted of agents. These agents could play different roles and perform variously in the society. Agents could be social institutes, ordinary people, state etc. The system of connections and types of interactions between different agents are called practices. Speaking about individuals, they possess habitus, a system of internalized knowledge and experience constituting their current self, every-day practices and habits.

According to criteria twelve diaries were selected and analysed. So far we mainly worked on the topic of reading. It played an important role in people's everyday lives and was part of their free time or even hobby. Regarding that only after modernization we could speak about hobbies in a wider scale (not only when mentioning elites) it is distinguishable feature that a person preferred to spend time on books rather than do sports. Reading and gaining knowledge was a value which later could help in life. Another reason was curiosity; many people were invested personally to find out what the world around them was. And surely there were a plenty who just liked it whether the book was historical fiction, memoirs or work of a classic. 

People also followed the literary trends, had a good knowledge of the latest books, and were not limited to one genre or author. Reading not only was a natural part of their routine but also structured time, determined individual’s behaviour and often made people judge about cultural capital according to what and how many books person read.

The existence of different reading practices allows us to see in a new way the seemingly understandable “reader-book” connection. Reading became a social indicator: “Tell me what you read and I will tell you who you are” and books’ discussion was a frequent subject in everyday communication. To keep track on literary news and knowing the classics meant a well-educated and intelligent person.

Modern society does not exist in permanent state, it constantly changes. Applying concept of Bourdieu to the Russian society of the late Imperial era, we could notice that field was not stable. People often changed their positions, moved across the country and contacted different agents. Still the field was generally the same and every man knew what to expect. The times of revolutions changed it. Agents did not know what position they held in the new society while preserving habitus they had acquired earlier.

Practices are a good example for showing what values exist in society, what social interactions happen and how society changes. Reading being a good case of practice emerged in modern times demonstrates the importance of this process in a person’s life. Often it was done not for pleasure but to gain respect, knowledge, start a career or find answers about nature and outer world. 

During the anarchy, however, we see that people are derived from their status, sometimes as with Russian aristocracy even hunted down and eliminated. The war of all against all becomes the new rule and many people try to survive, thus establishing quite unstable amalgamation of new and old practices. In other words, people often play the opposite roles they have had before though retaining old habituses and the elements of early life with its routine.