The relevant of the chosen theme caused by enhanced role of women nowadays. Moreover, feminist movement defined agenda today. There is a tendency of increasing women’s involvement in social, economic and political spheres of life. It is impossible to imagine family, society and government without women’s engagement.

It doesn’t mean that the gender problems become irrelevant despite the fact that in recent decades the growth of cultural, educational level of women. It shows the great changes inside society towards woman, her social status and role.
	
Women’s departments created as the result of the first USSR female employees conference in 1918. The reason of establishment of these departments was the necessity of supporting of new Communist government. The analysis of primary causes of women’s committees, its activity and structure helps to understand its functions in the lives of ordinary women across the USSR. Despite the fact that these  organisations were official, their members also took responsibility for private lives of women, their relationships in families as part of patriarchal society.

The objectives of the research are aimed at achieving the main goal of the research.

The objectives are:
review the historical perspective of the women’s movement in USSR as a strategy of Communist Party;
explore the process of establishment of women’s department in Perm Provincial, its structure and member’s roles;
characterise basic form of activity organising of the department and its interaction with the Central Committee of RCP(b);
find and analysis the society attitude towards Communist tragedy of dealing with women’s issues.

A large body of literature we investigated has divided into two groups. The first one focuses on researches describing gender policy in USSR after the Communist Party assumed the power. There can be found the descriptions of the tasks for women’s committees from the Central Committee of RCP(b). Mainly the tasks are related to the propagandistic activities among women working in the factories, living in the villages in order to:
describe the rights to females;
prove that women can be useful for USSR development;
involve females in rear employment.
	
Moreover, a lot of practical women’s objectives were described such as fifth against prostitution, maternity protection and etc.
	
The second group of literature is devoted to the local women’s departments in Ural. Well-known fact that Ural is a center of industry, so, there was a great field for propaganda in the factories. Despite this fact, there was a lack of employees in Perm women’s committee that caused great treatments. The archive official correspondence  proves the fact of the poor working conditions for women.
	
To conclude, the first group gives the common overview of the gender politics of Communist Party, whereas the second one shows the local problems and challenges of Perm women’s department alongside with the Central Committee’s directives.

It is important to review the activity of the departments objectively  basing on context analysis of the documents’ texts using comparative method.The majority of sources are archive documents dedicated to the practice of the women’s department in Perm Provincial. Additional sources are books written by leaders of the first women’s department such as I.Armand and A.Kollontaj.

At first, the historical context of  the Bolshevik party assumed power helps to understand the causes of  the creation of women’s department.  Despite the fact the most regulations of gender politics were declarative, women’s equality have to be reviewed as ideological and propagandistic method to solve women’s question that time, however, it gives a wider range of perspectives for women’s development in political, social and public life of society.
	
Thus, women’s department started to spread in 1918. In 1919 the first women’s department in Perm Provincial was created but the first notes about the organisation are dated autumn 1919, after the Kochak’s uprising.
	
Perm women’s department cannot be review as unique one because all committees had the same structure headed by Headmistress. The difference is in special tasks that were assigned by the Central Committee. The theme of women’s self-self-realisation had been pushed out by collective struggle for building proletariat.
	
Women’s activity was levelling off due to the strengthening of the Communist Party. The tasks transformed, from political aims to addressing the challenges of society such as struggle against illiteracy, support of women in families.
	
So, the objectives that will be reviewed intended to find other aspects of the activity of women’s department and changes in interaction with government.

Women’s departments RKP(b) were a good mechanism of gender modernisation, that was implemented by USSR in context of socialist construction in accordance with the official strategy of Communist Party.

The analysis of activity of women’s department shows that the main aim  - of the introducing women in public life was - was not reached. So, the result of this period was appearing of new Soviet intelligency, which began to include proletarian females.