The actuality of the study is in description and edition of previously not research and edited written source. The manuscript of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» has not researched yet. However, transcription, translation and commentary of that manuscript may give us a chance to get a rather better insight into dynamic of such social and cultural interactions of the English society of twelfth century. To the social and cultural interactions refer, for example, the process of study, compilation of texts of sermons and their celebration. All of the examples above have both social and cultural aspects, which can be understand through meticulous analysis and commentary of manuscript.

The purpose of my research is to identify role of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» parts about birds and beasts in the context of social and cultural process in England of the twelfth century.  The task of my research are:
* To transcribe the text of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» parts about birds and beasts;
* To translate the text of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» parts about birds and beasts from Latin to Russian;
* To highlight citation and quotation from Bible, make a assume about their aim and purposes.

The main novelty of the research is consist in the unique writing record, which is devoted to the research. There is no any edition of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» neither partly, neither as a full text.

The research aims to provide answersto the following questions:What reasons cause the emergence of popularity of such genre as distinctions? Why Peter Cornullia chose this genre?  What place pantheologus took in the twelfth century sermon in England?

The base key concept of the project is Distinctiones. Professor P. S. Moore in his research “The Works of Peter of Poitiers” explains Distinctiones as genre. Based on the four senses or levels of meaning (literal, allegorical, anagogic, tropologic) of a term found in the scriptures. For each meaning, it furnishes a scriptural illustration. 
     
Another key term of the research is Pantheologus. Theorists of The British Library defines Pantheologus as a collection of distinctiones, words from the Bible whose figurative meanings are listed and distinguished for use as exempla in sermons.
    
All the monographs, which is used in the research, represent two aspects: the first one is literature about distinctions and pantheologus as genres of medieval literature; the second one is literature about social and cultural peculiar properties of England in the twelfth century.
     
Speaking about literature and monographs, we cannot forget about such valuable works as Visible Allegory: The terminology Abel of Peter Chanter by Stephen A. Barney (Bloomfield, M. W., 1981), Alan of Lille’s Distinctiones problem theological language by Gillian R. Evans (Evans, G. R., 1983), Biblical distinctions in the thirteenth century and Floregia of patristic texts by M.A. and R. H. Rouse (Rouse, R. H., & Rouse, M. A., 1979). 
     
Visible Allegory: The terminology Abel of Peter Chanter by Stephen A. Barney (Bloomfield, M. W., 1981) is devoted to edition of Peter the Chanter’s Distinctiones Abel. Barney explains the aim of Peter the Chanter’s Distinctiones Abel, its compositional features. The vital point of the Barney’s research is allegory as method of biblical interpretation. This method include four senses of meaning: historical, allegorical, tropological, and anagogic. Barney as researcher focus on the features of disctictiones as genre, its technological innovation in exegetical works of this sort – arranges the words whose meanings are to be distinguished in alphabetical order. Then Peter the Chanter form drawstrings for each word for radiating to the brief explanations of each sense of meaning. Another special in Distinctiones Abel is organization of words and senses in parallel sets. Barney assumes that the principle of parallelism is crucial for this case. 
     
Alan of Lille’s Distinctiones problem theological language by Gillian R. Evans (Evans, G. R., 1983) is devoted to the varied meanings a word, which may have in the Bible are not figurative, but the sense depended on the liturgy and its aim. In addition, he assumes that sometimes meanings, which are to be found in the Bible, are the proper meanings, which can be subordinate or borrowed. It cause to question about the fundamental issue of theological language, whether words properly used when they related to the creation of world and only taking to talking about God, or whether they properly used to refer to God and only borrowed for ordinary use. This question also causes the problem of cultural patterns of twelfths century England. As Evans consider, Alan wanted to provide “an aim to the preacher”. This research allows to hold a hypothesis about the aim of  Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus».
     
Major corpus of the monographs, devoted to distinctions and pantheologus as genres of medieval literature consist of works by M.A. and R. H. Rouse. There are Biblical distinctions in the thirteenth century and Floregia of patristic texts.
     
The article Biblical distinctions in the thirteenth century (Rouse, R. H., & Rouse, M. A., 1974) is about the evolution of distictiones as genre throughout the thirteen century. Distinctiones have traditionally been described as a static literary form, born fully developed and existing unaffected by the community which used them. Distinction collections were, however, continually changing, being adapted to the changing needs of the community of preachers who compiled and used them. By examining the content of a specific collection of distinctions, one can see what the term dislinclio signified at a given time to a given writer. However, it is only by extending the investigation to a number of collections, written at various times spread over a period of a hundred years, that one can see how biblical  erminology  evolved during the course of the thirteenth century. We should like here to examine the distinction collection as a literary genre, and to identify the changes it undergoes in content and purpose with the passage of a century.
     
Floregia of patristic texts (Rouse, R. H., & Rouse, M. A., 1979) considerû the value of floregia on a field of contemporary mediaeval studies. Floregia is is a collection of extracts taken by one person from the writings of others; it is a new arrangement of second-hand material. The authors it the article highlight three common features of floregia as genre. 
     
The first one is the immediate value value of text, which contained in floregia. There is ambivalent nature of floregia. On the one hand, a. florilegium is a selective record, subject to careful interpretation, of works available to the compiler; it is always be watchful for extracts merely borrowed from earlier compilations. On the other hand, while the instances of this from classical florilegia are better known, sometimes floregium might mention as examples from the collections.
     
The second one is role of floregia as the intermediate source. Authors based this hypothesis in on the implication the working habits, of many medieval writers. 
     
The third and the last feature is the role of floregia as a literary composition, which reflect the time and location of its creation. It shows floregia as reflection of medieval times that may be used as examples. Such approach to floregia as written record (monitoring changes in structure, organization, content and terminology) helps to gain relations of historical processes. However, we should not forget that such approach is depend on the point of view of particular person and allow seeing particular thing in the same mirror.
     
There also is monograph valuable for understanding the process and content of medieval mass and offices. It is Medieval Manuscripts for Mass and Office: A Guide to their Organization and Terminology by Andrew Hughes (Hughes, A., 1995). There is the first work in English, which describe the structure, content and specific features of medieval books for mass and offices. The monograph covers the period from the 13th to 16th century, which is correlate with my period under the question. The methods of dealing with the internal organization and the actual writing of the texts and chants on the page, which is presented in this work have particular value. It is allow to develop a strategy of comment for text. 

     
The research is interdisciplinary, which cause applying of historic-philological approach. On the frameworks of its approach, I use such methods, as genre analysis, lexical and semantic analysis, textual and conceptual analysis. All these methods are used for disclosure of text features, its relations with quotation and citation from Holy Scripture. In addition, these methods helps to transcript and translate text of “Pantheologus”. That cause an opportunity to make a suggestion about the aim and purposes of quotation and citation from Holy Scripture and the “Pantheologus” as a whole manuscript.
     
Beside the methods under the approach, I use a number of special methods in the frameworks of paleographicñ approach. Paleographic approach is due to the use of transcript the original text of manuscript. It determines focus on visual part of text, for example, the style and formation of the manuscript and the handwriting used in it. Knowledge of writing materials is also essential to the study of handwriting. All of these factors helps to determine origins of manuscript, approximate date of its creation, and, sometimes, the exact time of its creation and its author.
    
After conducting the research, I expect to get certain outcomes. I hope to identify role of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» parts about birds and beasts in the context of social and cultural process in England of the twelfth century. Using a set of methods and approaches and literature, I hope to transcribe the text of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» parts about birds and beast, to translate the text of Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» parts about birds and beasts from Latin to Russian and to highlight citation and quotation from Bible, make a assume about their aim and purposes.

I suppose that the Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus» vital aim is to take aid to the scholars and parsons. It was designed to give an explanation of words borrowed from Bible and arrange a mass or office. However, there is one another function of this manuscript.  «Pantheologus» is not only the book related with mass and offices, it also plays role of schoolbook.

After conducting the research, I edited the part about animal and birds from Peter Cornullia’s «Pantheologus». In addition, I translated these parts into Russian and made a commentary based on the  Holy Scripture. It allows me to enter a brand new written record, which has never edited before this project, into scientific circulation.