There is a currently expanded role of history of food as the part of “Alltagsgeschichte”. However, this aspect is not completely described in ancient history, especially specificity of food in the Classical period. In the “Odyssey” by Homer, for example, noble man is distinguished from roturier and Greeks from foreigners partly in terms of how and what they ate. The poor have eaten fish; the Scythians have drunk unmingled wine. Thus, Greeks paid special attention to food, and it played an important role in their social and cultural life.

The purpose of my research is to identify special traditions, culinary features and dishes of different regions and cities in Ancient Greece.
     
The tasks of my research are the following:
* to analyze  the sources about Ancient Greece in the Classical period 
* to reveal  the variety of Classical Greek foods 
* to determine difference between people of Ancient Greece with reference to their nutrition
* to reconstruct Ancient Greek dishes
      
The general objective of my research is to expand the field of study in history of ancient food, while the specific one is creation of the “gastronomic map” of Ancient Greece.
      
Delimitations of the Study. There is a number of rigorous limitations to be taken into account. First of all, there is lack of information about everyday life, because ancient people did not practically write about their daily activities. Moreover, numerous sources did not come to our times and, hence, the study findings will be severely limited in the amount of information to be collected. In addition, ancient literary evidences were influenced by strong philosophical traditions, which consider the soul more valuable than the body. J. Wilkins (2006) put a greater emphasis on this problem.
      
Professional Significance. Besides literary evidences such as works of Plutarch, Athenaeus, Plato and Aristophanes, I used visual evidences such as images on Greek black- and red-figure vases.  This approach helps to overcome theoretical constraints.
      
Definitions of key terms. The research deals with two concepts: “Alltagsgeschichte” and “cuisine”. Alltagsgeschichte or the history of everyday life is a form of microhistory. It is very complex and does not have any unified definition. Alfred Schutz was the first, who introduced the term “everyday life” and regarded it as a sphere of human experience, which included work, leisure, and household (Schutz, 1967). Many scholars have developed this concept and contributed to finding specific features in it.  In the study everyday life is regarded “a way in which an individual, group or society typically acts, thinks, and feels on a daily basis” (Luedtke, 1995, p. 36). And nutrition is an essential part of everyday life.
     
Another key concept of the research is cuisine. B. A. Sparkes (1962, p.122) defines cuisine as “a cooking style or quality of cooking, or food from a certain region or country”.  Professor A. Dalby (1996, p.10) defines cuisine as a “set of traditions of cooking characterized by distinctive ingredients, techniques and dishes, which is usually associated with a specific culture or geographic region”. For the analysis, the definition is expanded. HOW?

This part of the project is meant to investigate theoretical studies in the field of history of ancient food. It is worth noting that exploration of Ancient Greek cuisine ranks among quite contemporary investigations, since food has become a widely recognized subject of interest to historians only over the last fifty years. The basis for this research field was provided by the Annales E. S. C., where was published a collection of articles on food and nutrition in the 1960s. Such interest was determined by anthropological turn in historical studies, where history of everyday life became an independent research area. However, within this short time scale many works was created, which established a framework for food history, and a growing recognition of its legitimacy as a field of study. Therefore, the study of Ancient Greek cuisine is provided by a large body of literature on the subject, however in this project light is going to be shed only on the main approaches.
     
For a long time the research of Greek food has been concerned with investigation of Ancient Greek’s everyday life. For the first time ever private and public life in ancient Greece was demonstrated in the tremendous work by Paul Guiraud in 1890 (Guiraud, 1920). He described both everyday meal and symposium and special characteristics of cooking. It is difficult to exaggerate the extraordinary importance of Guiraud’s contribution since his approach opened prospects for further studies. As much as a remarkable contribution was made by R. J. Forbes, who investigated various ancient technologies. The part of the third volume of his work is devoted to food and alcohol (Forbes, 1955). The punch line of Forbes’ approach is based on uncovering instrumentalities of cooking. The next important monograph devoted to this concept is A. Sens’ and S.D. Olson’s book (Olson, Sens, 1999), who offers a window into the complex of Greek culture and cuisine in the fourth century BCE. The specific innovation is use of works by Archestratos as a source. Generally, this approach does not provide sufficient explanation of Ancient Greek cuisine, because nutrition here is studied as one of everyday spheres of life. It is worthwhile to dramatically narrow the focus of investigation in order to appreciate better culinary culture of Ancient Greece.
     
The alternative standpoint shifts the topic of theoretical concentration to scrutiny of certain aspect of Greek food. The example of this approach is provided by the paper by L. Foxhall and H.A. Forbes (Foxhall, Forbes, 1982), whose theory is based on the analysis of the role of grain as a staple food in Classical Antiquity. Besides consideration of agricultural regions of Ancient Greece, where grain crops were grown, authors broached an issue of cost, weights and trade routes of cereal in the all Graeco-Roman world. Foxhall’s and Forbes’ concept has had a fundamental influence on studying Ancient Greek nutrition. Their successors drove towards studying other components of Greek cuisine. One of such followers was K.B. Flint-Hamilton, who wrote the article about legumes in Ancient Greece and Rome (Flint-Hamilton, 1999). It is noteworthy that he explored beans not only as the food stuff, but their other functions. With this aim in view Flint-Hamilton used archaeological evidence. Another instance of this approach is N. Purcell’s monograph (Purcell, 1995). He wrote on symbolism of fish-eating in Ancient Greece. He tried to give a broader theoretical basis for the research, for this purpose he considered various ancient cultures and compared them. Thus within the framework suggested by this approach a lot of information about aspects of Greek food was obtained, but it will be difficult to formulate the notion of all Ancient Greek cuisine.
     
Another approach was understood as a defection from the mainstream of science. The particularity of this method for studying Ancient Greek cuisine is a focus on the symposium found in numerous publications. First of all, it is the monograph by O. Murray entitled precisely “Sympotica: A symposium on the symposion” (Murray, 1990), who elaborated a solid theoretical grounding for the research into this problem area. As much as a principal contribution was made by F. Lissarrague, who studied the aesthetics of the Greek banquet (Lissarrague, 2014). For deepening understanding of the symposium in ancient Greece, he analyzed images, which are decorating Athenian drinking vessels from the sixth and fifth centuries B.C. The next important monograph devoted this concept is A. Dalby’s book (Dalby, 1996), which is fully documented and comprehensively illustrated. He demonstrated different types of food at different Greek Banquets. Dalby’s key idea could be stated as follow: “Over the millennia, Greek feast diversified and absorbed neighbouring traditions, yet retained its own distinctive character” (1996, p. 33). However, a focus only on symposium seems to miss a vital point as Greek everyday meal also had some special aspects. 
     
The next approach can be found in works about economy and trade in Ancient Greece. It is impossible to evade the issue of food ration when studying economical activity. A considerable amount of valuable work on has been done to link together the study of Greek nutrition and their economic life. First of all, M. I. Finley’s monograph belongs to such studies (Finley, 1981) is famous for highly detailed observations of social interactions. His work focused on the Mycenaean and Homeric worlds of early Greece and the community of the Greek city in the Classical period. He calls attention to food in all these aspects. P. Garnsey also touched on the issue of foodstuffs in Ancient Greek economy (Garnsey, 1988). The innovative idea in his work is undoubtedly that he was the first who explored appearances of famine in antiquity. The study provides detailed case investigation of Athens, but also illuminates the food crisis in the mass of ordinary cities in the Graeco-Roman world. One more monograph is N. Morley’s work about trade in Classical Antiquity (Morley, 2007) researches foodstuffs that were bought, foodstuffs that were sold and their prices. Morley’s methods can be theoretically challenged, because he underestimated the importance of the time factor.  However, such an economic approach does not have any explanatory power for the observed phenomena in the sphere of nutrition. These authors do not give an elucidation of culinary traditions or how Ancient Greeks appreciated their food.
     
The most complex approach is given in the work by J. Wilkins (Wilkins, 2006). He places cuisine in the economic, social and agricultural context. He used a range of approaches to investigate the production and distribution of food, social, religious and political factors, medicine and diet, cultural identity and contrasts with neighbouring cultures, and food in literature. Another example of this approach is J.F. Donahue’s newest monograph (Donahue, 2015), an unparalleled work, which is a thorough and varied sourcebook with essential source material and with a wide range of evidence, drawing upon literary, inscriptional, legal and religious argumentums. This recent study reveals a helpful way to theorise. The knowledge of ancient food is not yet comprehensive and the problem of Ancient Greek cuisine needs to be investigated in greater details.

This section of research proposal describes the methods and procedures that are going to be used in carrying out the study. The outset of food history methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which takes a definite shape as the study is progressing. For that matter, in this study the most convenient methods will be combined. 
     
The general approach of the research will be the traditional method of critical analysis of the source. It will highlight the discrepancy between various literary evidences such as works by Plutarch, Athenaeus, Plato and Aristophanes. Moreover, the method of historical reenactment will be used, which is also a classical method in ancient history. Hence, an attempt will be undertaken to recreate Ancient Greek dishes. The next applicable method is the technique of everyday practices, which helps to explore human behavior in everyday life. The rationale for the approach involves looking more closely at routine practices in life, where one of them is nutrition. The innovative approach of the investigation is the method of visual study the exploitation of which is connected with usage of visual evidences such as images on Greek black- and red-figure vases. Such a politics has given rise to arguments about relevance of visual study in Classical Antiquity.
     
This methodology provides reconstruction of the data about different regions of Ancient Greece in two aspects: everyday meal and the symposium. In addition, these methods will determine meaningful understanding of Greek culinary traditions, their attitude to food and construction of “gastronomic map” of Ancient Greece.
 
The final part of the proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. There are discrepancies between visual evidences and literary evidences. In Plutarch’s text and in Aristophanes’ text there is mention about women who ate food together with men, but it is not depicted on the vessels. There are attributes, which help to understand where we can see every day meal or symposium on Greek vases. Ancient Greek cuisine was not uniform. For example, some products were both delicacy for Boeotian people and plain food for Athenian people. Therefore, analyzing them I form the full “gastronomic map”. The found data helps me to bring to light peculiarities and traditions of Ancient Greek cuisine. The analysis, probably, will show that women and men had differences in the way they ate food and people of various age-grade took a different foods. There is a possibility to reconstruct Ancient Greek dishes by the agency of recipes that were translated from Ancient Greek by me. 

The presentation of the all results will use an appropriate pattern in order to implications will be described accurately and objectively. 
     
It appears from what has been discussed, serious attention should be paid to search of evidences, which can help to investigate Ancient Greek cuisine. My findings are generally in line with the approach proposed of J. Wilkins (2006) and J.F. Donahue (2015). However, new materials such as visual evidences are used. Moreover, the baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that Greek original dishes are possible to reconstruct. Contrary to popular belief which is present in works by M. I. Finley (1981) or O. Murray (1990) , Greek food was not unified. They did not eat only “Mediterranean triad” (wheat, olive oil and wine) and their culinary traditions in different regions and cities in Ancient Greece exceedingly varied. According to this fact, the “gastronomic map” will be drawn.  Thus, numerous blank spots in the field of Ancient Greek cuisine are to be found, and the concepts will be deepen and pushed forward.