Introduction
Background of the Study. Unfortunately, nowadays many Russian executives, directors and managers do not clearly understand what is behind the term "organizational culture".  Only a few realize that the organizational culture is something more than just industrial esthetics or a clean workplace and household premises, but, actually, organizational culture is one of the most substantial and effective tools that can significantly influence the behavior of employees and the results of an organization in general. In modern conditions, the activity of managers in this area is a decisive factor of provision of competitiveness for any company. Concerning this situation, the problem of assessing organizational culture success arises. Each company requires an effective corporate culture, but the concept of success within every company differs, thus there is a need of corporate culture success evaluation in relation to the characteristics of every separate organization. 

The Problem Statement. The study of organizational culture success involves a necessity to establish the following aims:
To analyze literature on the topic of the study;
To consider different definitions of the term organizational culture and success;
To consider the concept of organizational culture’s success;
To identify the main methodology of assessing corporate culture’s success.
Following these objectives will allow me to conduct a high-quality and structured investigation during the time of pre-graduation internship.

Delimitations of the Study. In this study I am going to analyze personnel of only one organization and it will be impossible to apply future results of the study to other organizations, because the information will only reflect the individual characteristics of the particular organization’s corporate culture. Therefore, the aggregate sample will not be representative enough.

Professional Significance of the Study. The results of the study described in this paper will probably be used in practice, because they will be in the form of specific, evidence-based guidelines. Every director should be aware of the status of all processes in the company to achieve maximum efficiency of the business, and as a successful corporate culture is one of the most important factors of organization’s success in generally, it is essential to constantly monitor its level of development and the current state. The results of my research will help the head of the organization to see a more complete picture of the situation in the company and make better management decisions.

Literature review
Nowadays there are not so many studies aimed on evaluation of organizational culture success. This branch of studies is still only a developing one, because there are up to now controversies between researchers over the interpretation of terms related to the topic (organizational culture, success), so it slows down the development of the mentioned branch. Therefore, it seems to be appropriate to delve into the essence of controversial terms in this part of paper and only after that to start describing organizational culture success criteria. 
Organizational or corporate culture is a very special object of any enterprise, which creates its uniqueness, manifested in all spheres and in all aspects of the company’s activity. This breadth of coverage makes difficult formulation of a clear definition of organizational culture. Numerous attempts have been made to explain the essence of the organizational culture concept in the most comprehensive way, but there are still unsolved debates about the most appropriate approach to define the term. Thereby, it is substantiated to acquaint with other researchers' opinions on what organizational culture is and then combine reviewed information into an integrated definition, which will be topical towards this study.
Within the analyzed literature on the subject, I distinguished three approaches to definition of corporate culture. Following the first approach, H. Schwartz and S. Davis state that "organizational culture is a pattern of beliefs and expectations shared by the organization’s members. This beliefs and expectations produce norms that powerfully shape the behavior of individuals and groups in the organization" (Schwartz, Davis, 1981). Researchers describe organizational culture as the regulatory frameworks that determine the quality of labor and social behavior of employees and reduce the uncertainty of the organizational environment by reducing the number of behavioral alternatives. 
The second approach focuses on the structure of organizational culture, in other words, researches concentrate on identifying of the main elements of culture that give it specific features of special organizational phenomenon. For example, W. Ouchi mentioned that corporate culture includes "symbols, ceremonies and myths, which transmit the important ideas connected with values and beliefs to members of the organization" (Ouchi, 1981).
The third group of researchers tried to take into account the ability of culture to form a uniqueness of the organization. K. Gold made a contribution to the third approach when he wrote that organizational culture is unique characteristics of the perceived features of the organization, i.e. something that sets it (organization) apart from others in the industry (Gold, 1982). A similar definition was also suggested by a Russian researcher in the field of management, V. Spivac is sure that corporate culture is a system of material and spiritual values that reflects company’s individuality (Спивак, 2001).
I suppose that by combining definitions of these three approaches, I can assume the following: organizational culture is phenomenon, harmoniously combined explicit and implicit values, norms and behavioral rules, as well as mechanisms for their implementation which form the individuality of the company and determine the characteristics of employee’s organizational behavior contributing to the formation of the competitive position of the organization in the external environment. 
Since at first sight, success is a vague and obscure concept, it seems logical to look deeply into the essence of this controversial term and discuss it, moving from worldly definition to more complex one, connected with economics, management and organizational culture.
In the context of everyday life, success can be interpreted as inner awareness of a person of his or her actions and status. In this case, evaluation of success is based on comparison with results and achievements of other people and the condition of the person in the past. In the context of economics and management, success is defined by connection between efficiency and the company's goals achievement, in other words, company's success is reflected in the extent to which it achieved its goals, that had been set before any activity began (Pinto, Slevin, 1987). It is possible to conclude that success appear when results meet objective.
The main purpose of organizational culture is provision of external adaptation and internal integration of the whole organization. Thus success of organizational culture is its condition that contributes to a mutually satisfactory interaction between involved parties in the process of realization of strategic goals of the company.
As all of the fundamental definitions are analyzed, it becomes possible to point out the main criteria of organizational culture success. O. U. Isopeskul indicates the following criteria of success (Isopeskul, 2014):
Level coherence of organizational culture
Culture’s otherness;
Goodwill of enterprise;
"Mood" of staff;
Employee loyalty.
Interconnections of this five criteria form the organizational culture’s model of "Star of success", the essence of which is described in more detail below in the "Methods" section of the current paper.
Now let me consider the content of each criterion separately:
Level coherence (consistency) of organizational culture
Key point here is that perception of the organizational culture by top management and staff should not vary. This criterion is a measure of success, because the achievement of normative identity between representatives of various organizational levels allows reaching a balance between the parties and reducing the likelihood of conflicts within the organization.
Culture’s otherness
Every organizational culture has its unique traits that distinguish one company from another, even if they operate in the same market, have a similar style of management, competitive position, history and etc. Uniqueness of the organizational culture shows that this culture has been developed independently and adapted to the slightest nuances of the organization.
Goodwill of enterprise
Since employees broadcast organizational values to the outside world, a good business reputation indicates that there is harmony within the organization. In today's world, goodwill is considered as a valuable resource and as an intangible asset that can be beneficially implemented (Isopeskul, 2014).
"Mood" of staff
This criterion is aimed at identifying the dynamics of employees’ views of the state of the culture in the company.
Employee loyalty
This criterion reflects the ability of the company and its organizational culture to form an atmosphere that not only attract talented and valuable employees, but also can keep them. Formation of a loyal staff demonstrates the success of the organizational culture because loyal employees are aimed at protecting interests of the organization.

Methodology
This part of the research proposal gives special emphasis to the methods to be used in carrying out the study and to the data to be analyzed during the pre-graduate internship.
I plan to follow the algorithm of researching organizational culture success suggested by O. U. Isopeskul in her book "Management discourses of organizational culture". The point of this approach is that it will be necessary to evaluate each criteria of organizational culture success in conditions of a real organization using special methodology also described in the book. These assessments will help me to determine a level (a stage) of organizational culture success development. This method seems to be the most appropriate, because it fully covers the criteria of culture success in the frameworks of organization.
There are five stages of the organizational culture success dynamics according to O. U. Isopeskul:
Lack of success. It is characterized by low scores on all indicators and criteria. Culture is in the worst condition because of incompetence and non-systematic impacts.
Episodic success. It is characterized by lack of clear and deliberate actions towards the organizational culture management. Despite the fact that the situation is dangerous, it is not critical and organizational culture tends to mean values.
Partial success. It is characterized by satisfactory indicators on all the criteria. However, the effect of the impact on the organizational culture can never be accurately predicted.
Success. This stage reflects almost optimal state of corporate culture success.
Complete success. It is absolutely perfect category. In practice, this state is almost unattainable.
Object of the study is going to be a well known in Perm organization – Medlife, and subject is going to be its organizational culture.

Results anticipated
Since at the moment the practical part of the study has not yet started, it seems difficult to present now unbiased assumptions about the results of the investigation. But despite this fact, it is possible to make the assumption in terms of my personal experience connected with Health Clinic Medlife. Considering the proposed gradation of five stages of the organizational culture success, I can assume that Medlife’s corporate culture reached the fourth stage of success (Success), because the organization has a stable position in the market and it thrives. 

Conclusion
In conclusion I would like briefly recapitulate the main ideas of the research described in the current paper. The idea that we should pay more attention to the corporate culture and researches devoted to it runs like a golden thread through this research proposal, I deem that the present Russian companies should conduct more researches which allow measuring objectively the success of their cultures because it increases the efficiency of business.
This paper examined concepts such as organizational (corporate) culture and its success, also the method of assessing success of culture within the organization was described.
Final results of this investigation will allow the company in the future to improve the situation connected with condition of their culture. 