Introduction
The first part of the proposal introduces the background of the study, states the problem, indicates the professional significance, determines the scope of the research and presents the definitions of the key terms.

Background of the study
For many years management practitioners and researchers have been concerned with gaining a better understanding of how organizations survive and grow. Business environment is constantly changing and evolving. In the face of fierce competition and the struggle for profit organizations have to ceaselessly improve. One of the tools to the advancement of the company is reengineering. Thus, business efficiency depends on how the business processes are organized and being improved in a company. Business processes play the key role in the enterprise. They allow managers to imagine how the organization works and how it interacts with external entities such as suppliers or customers. 
Information technology in general and information systems in particular deserve an important role in business process management, because more and more activities that a company performs are supported by information systems. So, business process activities can be performed by the company’s employees manually or by the help of information systems. There are also business process activities that can be enacted automatically by information systems, without any human involvement. Thus, interesting observations on structural properties of business processes can be made, which are very useful for detecting structural deficiencies in real-world business processes.
	
Problem statement 
In the nineties, most organizations were focused on business process redesign or reengineering projects. Leading companies focused on processes that cut across departmental or functional lines, but most companies concentrated on redesigning processes within specific departments or functional units. The concept of process has repeatedly emerged in many of the prominent thematic initiatives in the post-reengineering era. Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Six Sigma, and more recently Business Process Management (BPM), for example, all utilize the concept of «process». So, process approach in management in Russian companies is becoming more and more popular because of its increasing efficiency the organization activity. But the implementation of this approach in a Russian company is often accompanied by many difficulties. 
They may be:
the situation of the incorrect setting goals and objectives of the implementation the process approach by top-management,
the opposition of the changes by the employees, 
the insufficient level of modeling tools,
the conflict of interests, 
the attempt to change all processes at once etc. 
So, companies with a process approach in management often became ineffective, that is why business processes are revised. 
The study aim of a research is to give recommendations on the re-engineering of business processes in a company. The problem question in the framework of this aim is how to change the main business processes in a company in order to increase the efficiency of the enterprise. So, the following objectives will be solved:
To identify the main business processes of a company,
To build a model of the main processes,
To select some of the business processes for further improvement,
To analyze the selected processes and to develop their models,
To develop guidelines to improve the selected business processes,
To evaluate the effectiveness of solutions.

Delimitations of the study 
The study findings will be limited by the method of data collection because the main source of information for identifying the business processes are internal documents of a company, such as the regulations and job descriptions. 

Professional significance of the study
The research study will be of primary significance to operational managers, which are interested in analyzing and reengineering of business processes. The research will be more practical, than theoretical, so it may help managers to understand how to analyze, to redesign, and to improve the business processes they manage. The study will try to answer the question how companies can achieve efficiencies by integrating and improving their business processes and by aligning those business processes improvement, using different techniques, are able to consistently improve on the results obtained from existing processes. 

Definitions of key terms
The term Business Process Management (BPM) is in use by a number of different types of communities – including executives, business process consultants, business analysts, enterprise architects, CIO’s, and software developers – and has different meanings to different people. The broad and tangible definition provided by van der Aalst: «Supporting business processes using methods, techniques, and software to design, enact, control, and analyze operational processes involving humans, organizations, applications, documents and other sources of information».
Many different definitions of the term «business process» exist in literature. So, Fan (2001) and Shen et al. (2004) gave the definition:  «Business process is a set of one or more linked procedures or activities that collectively realize a business objective or policy goal, normally within the context of an organizational structure defining functional roles and relationships». 
Business Process Reengineering (BPR) has been a popular term since the 1990s especially after Hammer & Champy and Davenport published books to elaborate BPR related issues and cases. Hammer & Champy define reengineering as: «The fundamental rethinking and radical redesign of business processes to achieve dramatic improvements in critical, contemporary measures such as cost, quality, service, and speed».

Main part
The purpose of this chapter is to present both an overall appraisal of the issues and opportunities in business process modeling, and a review of the research approaches and results relevant to studying the correctness of control flow and resource-sharing issues.

Literature review 
Business process modeling plays a major role in the perception and understanding of business processes. In most of the cases, a business process is as expressive and as communicative as is the technique that has been used to model it. Therefore, the elements and the capabilities of a business process model play a significant role in describing and understanding a business process. 
The research will be based on four main scientific works. The first is «Business Process Management: Concepts, Languages, Architectures» by Mathias Weske. This work gives a theoretical base of business process methodology, fully introduces an evolution of enterprise systems architectures and offers a detailed analysis of different workflow languages (such as Graph-Based Workflow Language). The second is «Modeling of Business processes» by August-Wilhelm Scheer. New approaches of developing information systems were submitted in this work. It is significant, that this book presents business process architecture, such as Architecture of Integrated Information Systems (ARIS), with a practical point of view, which later be used in optimizing business processes. The third is «Evaluating the State-of-the-Art in Business Process Management Tools and Methodologies» by Rob Konterman. The main goal of this research is to evaluate the company in BPM tools and methodologies. The empirical results gathered from the case study combined with an extensive literature review allow the main research goal to be answered. And finally, the fourth is «Business Process Optimization using an Evolutionary Multi-objective Framework» by Ashutosh Tiwari. This research proposes a representation technique for business process designs using both a visual and a quantitative perspective. It also proposes the Process Composition Algorithm (PCA) – an algorithm for composing new business process designs. The proposed business process optimisation framework (bpoF) lies at the heart of this research and employs the representation technique, PCA and a series of state-of-the-art evolutionary optimisation algorithms. 
Authors such as Kettinger et al., Melao and Pidd, and Aguilar-Saven have provided frameworks for presenting and classifying different business process modeling techniques. Kettinger et al. [9] conducted a thorough study of business process reengineering methodologies, techniques, and tools that are adopted by 25 international consultancy firms. Kettinger et al. report a widespread use of process capture and modeling techniques. They also present a comprehensive list of the appropriate software tools and the techniques (e.g., process flowcharting, data flow diagramming) that each of the tools supports. However, there is not much emphasis on process modeling itself as it is viewed merely as a technique among others that constitute the wider picture of business process reengineering. Melao and Pidd [11], on the other hand, focus exclusively in business processes and their modeling. They adopt four different perspectives for understanding the nature of business processes first, and then, identify the most common modeling approaches for each perspective. The first perspective views business processes as deterministic machines, that is, as a fixed sequence of well-defined activities that convert inputs to outputs in order to accomplish clear objectives. For this perspective, static process modeling is sufficient, with techniques such as integrated definition methods (IDEF0, IDEF3) and role activity diagrams (RADs). The second perspective views business processes as complex dynamic systems, assemblies of interchangeable components. This second viewpoint focuses on the complex, dynamic, and interactive features of business processes. The authors suggest discrete event simulation as a suitable way to model the dynamic behavior of this approach. The third perspective of business processes is interacting feedback loops that highlight the information feedback structure of business processes. System dynamics modelers are recommended for this perspective. The last perspective of business process is social constructs, and emphasizes more on the people side. It is the people who made and enact business processes, people with different values, expectations, and roles. This soft side of business processes can be modeled with soft unstructured illustrative models. However, a real-life business process involves elements for all the four perspectives, and therefore, there is evident that there is no such modeling technique that can embrace all this variety of characteristics that constitute a business process.
Another notable review regarding business process modeling classification comes from Aguilar-Saven. The author presents the main process modeling techniques and classifies them based on two dimensions: the first dimension is concerned with four different purposes of use, and classifies the business process models based on whether they are: 
1) descriptive for learning; 
2) enable decision support for process development/design; 
3) enable decision support for process execution;
4) allow information technology (IT) enactment support. 
The second dimension distinguishes between active and passive models. As active are considered those models that allow the user to interact with them (dynamic model), while passive are those that do not provide this capability. It is important to note that Aguilar-Saven provides an extensive and updated list of software tools that are associated with all the process modeling techniques presented in the paper. As seen from the references described before, each of the authors provides a different modeling framework according to his or her focus on specific directions. Vergidis proposes a new classification scheme for business process models. The purpose of this scheme is to classify the most a range of business process models according to their structural characteristics and their capabilities for analysis and optimization. The author proposes three sets to classify business process modeling techniques, as demonstrated in Fig. 1. The first set (i.e., diagrammatic models) involves business process models that sketch a business process using a visual diagram. The second set (i.e., mathematical models) corresponds to models in which all the elements have a mathematical or a formal underpinning. Finally, the third set (i.e., business process languages) contains software-based languages that support business process modeling and most of the times process execution.
Since Hammer (1990) and Davenport and Short (1990) first published articles outlining the concepts of BPR, organizations have shown increasing interest in reengineering. Some experts estimate that up to 88% of large corporations are engaged in BPR efforts (Bashein, Markus, and Riley 1994). A recent survey of 534 chief information officers conducted by Deloitte and Touche found that each senior IS executive is involved, on average, in 4.4 reengineering projects (Hayley, Plewa and Watts 1993). 
Another survey of IS managers found that sixty four percent of the respondents felt that helping to reengineer business processes will be a critical or very important activity for them in 1994 (Moad 1994).
Since BPR is a relatively new phenomenon, few research studies have been conducted on BPR. Most of the available articles and books that address BPR provide organizational prescriptions based on anecdotal descriptions of the BPR process and results. The few rigorous BPR research efforts that have been conducted typically build on case studies (Grover, Teng and Fiedler 1993) based on the view that "when little is known about a phenomenon, ... theory building from case study research is particularly appropriate because theory building from case studies does not rely on previous literature or prior empirical evidence ... (this) is most appropriate in the early stages of research on a topic" (Eisenhardt 1989). This study identified research streams that have relevance to the BPR phenomenon based upon a review of many BPR case descriptions and attendance at a three day BPR seminar conducted by Michael Hammer (1994). In this study, research on creativity provides the primary theoretical context for investigating differences between traditional IS development and BPR efforts and for explaining the factors that influence creative behavior on BPR teams. Based on an extensive literature review, concepts have been identified in the creativity and IT literature that aid in understanding how BPR teams can develop radically new IT design ideas. The remainder of this section describes the relevant concepts which form the basis for the study's research hypotheses. 
There is a rich literature on modelling tools themselves (Bal, 2002; Gingele et al, 2002; Gunasekeran and Kobu, 2002; Lin et al, 2002). Such research often categorises this activity under the heading Business Process Management. IT vendors, in particular, recognise this term and use it as a vehicle to develop and promote their products. However, perspectives are starting to emerge which emphasis a broader context: «BPM…has to be capable of modelling a process, brokering that process, delivering it with straight through processing (STP), and then managing it, all within a single environment. Because of its far reaching implications for the ability of enterprises to adapt, it is much more than a technology fad but a management issue that needs to be on senior management's agenda, driving the IT support of the business».

Methodology
In the research analysis of business processes, ARIS methodology will be used (ARIS is the abbreviation of Architecture of Integrated Information Systems). This approach is most convenient to describe the processes of the organization. ARIS concept is a powerful tool to create and analyze models created. Visual representation of the study area provides a wide range of models of different types and purpose. 
The bases for describing business processes in ARIS are Value added chain diagrams (VAD) and Event-driven process chains (EPC). The combination of different types of diagrams provides a great opportunity to describe business processes and identify possible problems. The example of a model in ARIS is presented in Appendix 1. 
The regulations and job descriptions are the main source of information for identifying the business processes. Regulations are a set of rules governing the work of the organization. Additional sources of information are the employees themselves and their personal experience. The documents, such as regulations and job descriptions, were developed in order to regulate the internal activities of the company.

Results anticipated
The following part of the research proposal on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. As stated in part I, the study reported here will examine the main business processes in a company – in what extent them bring the efficiency in enterprise. 
The results will be presented in the shape of the visual model, using the program software «ARIS». So, the study will be more practical, than theoretical. 
	
Conclusion 
Business processes play the key role in the enterprise. They allow managers to imagine how the organization works and how it interacts with external entities such as suppliers or customers. 
One of the tools to the advancement of the company is reengineering. Thus, business efficiency depends on how the business processes are organized and being improved in a company.
The study aim is to give recommendations on the re-engineering of business processes in a company. In the analysis of business processes, ARIS methodology will be used. A company’s regulations and job description will be analyzed in order to identify the main business processes of enterprise. As a result it will be a model of the main business processes in ARIS.




