Introduction
Background. At present, there is an increasing concern among modern people for starting a business. Consequently, it brings to the foreground the issue of market analysis. The major problem of starting a common business is barrier to entry, for instance, high competition or large costs. Accordingly, this problem has become an important topic of theoretical concentration. Many scholars devote their studies to the idea how to be a competitive player in the market or how to create an effective development strategy. Regardless of the major concern, there is a gap in theoretical understanding of starting a business, because a wide range of contemporary startup ideas forestall existing theories. 

Problem Statement. In this research the overall aim is to formulate recommendations for preparing a business plan based on strategic analysis of the advertising services market in Perm.
For achieving the aim, a number of specific objectives should be emphasized:
to study the available literature relevant to market analysis;
to choose strategic analysis tools suitable for the market of advertising services;
to analyze the advertising services industry in Perm using strategic analysis tools;
to submit recommendations on preparing a business plan for creating a new advertising agency. 

Delimitations of the Study. The present research depends on having access to advertising agencies. Despite the theoretical basis of the paper, the access could be subjective. Consequently, it is limited in some way. Time constraints of the semester require less time than may be ideal for analyzing advertising services market in Perm. There are more than 200 advertising agencies in Perm. Since I have not got an opportunity to devote more than semester to studying advertising industry, I will concentrate on 100 of them that occupy a large market share. Moreover, being an outsider of advertising organizations, which I am going to analyze, may limit what is revealed to me while in-depth interviews. Furthermore, people often answer the questions inaccurately in attempt to please the researcher. It means that the usage of the questionnaire can be decreased. Finally, the recommendations that I will give cannot be used by every company, because I cannot develop a pattern of working on every advertising agency since the specification may be different.

Professional Significance. In conformity with the significance of Strategic Market Analysis studies, the overall goal of my project involves a necessity to explore various theoretical approaches of modern marketing analysis, apply it for advertising services market and to make a business plan of opening a new entrepreneurship structure. To attain the goal set, it is worthwhile to follow certain of professor Michael Porter insights.  Especially it is worth considering his model of five forces that explain how to analyze competitors.  Furthermore, the theory of five forces allows revealing the problem area of the industry. This problem can be an urgent importance for all those who are engaged in the advertising services business.

Literature Review
In this competition century, an entrepreneur should study thoroughly the target market before launching a business. In the present part of my proposal I will explain the search process in reviewing the enormous literature on business development. The collection of books and articles that I have used provides a solid grounding for market analysis. Since the notion of “business” is extensive, I will concentrate on the industry of advertising services. Over the past decade, the idea of advertising has been revised, whereas it keeps pace with international trends. New placement technologies and a wide range of advertising services have to increase competition. Moreover, advertising is the best way to differentiate a product or a service.  
On the basis of empirical findings, it is evident that for industries where products are differentiable, investment in advertising is a highly profitable activity. Industries with high advertising outlays earn, on average, at a profit rate which exceeds that of other industries by nearly four percentage points. This differential represents a 50 per cent increase in profit rates. (Comanor and Wilson, 1967, p.437)
According to Woodrow Eckard (1987), “High levels of advertising intensity increase firm market power by creating entry barriers, thereby reducing firm demand elasticity. This in turn implies a steady-state inverse relation between advertising intensity levels and leading firm market share variability.” (p.540) Based on the foregoing it could be argued that advertising play a significant role for new products and services on the market. Thus, advertising services will be always required by companies.
For a long time the research on strategic management was tied up with manufacturing establishments. However, over the past half century, the value of studying market analysis tends to be devoted to services, such as business in the industry of advertising services. Scholars from all over the world have provided access to the variety of approaches to market analysis, due to their experience and many years of investigations. On the whole, big advance has been achieved in the study of strategic management.
The development of business analysis as a professional discipline has extended the role and responsibilities of marketing researches. It allows investigating ideas and problems, formulating options for a way forward and producing business cases by setting out conclusions and recommendations. 
The early engagement of strategic analysis is necessary because of the need to ensure that all business changes are in line with the mission, objectives and strategy of the organization. This business context is the key foundation for understanding and evaluating all ideas, proposals, issues and problems put forward by managers. 
Therefore, strategic analysis of an industry could be used for the following purposes:
identifying the tactical options that will address a given situation and will support the delivery of the business strategy; 
deﬁnition the tactics that will enable the organization to achieve its strategy; 
redeﬁning the tactics after implementation to take account of business changes and to ensure continuing alignment with business objectives. (Cadle, Paul and Turne, 2010, p.26)
Anna Zub, the independent consultant of the PROMO Company devoted 8 years to the science of management, especially strategic analysis. She stated, “Strategic analysis of the industry is necessary for the development of enterprise structure because it: 
enhances the competitive advantages; 
makes best use of resources; 
improves the adaptation of the company in the external environment; 
improves the orientation of the company in the external environment; 
allows employees to concentrate on achieving a common goal ”. (Zub, 2007, p.448)
According to Popov (2001), “The ultimate effectiveness of strategic analysis as a tool for management and development of organizations depends significantly on the quality of selected data items, and the general quality of the results. The specific content of certain positions and the overall quality of each script, in turn, consist of the quality of specific analytical results that are achieved in each stage of the strategic analysis of the industry”. (p.6) Thereby a useful for advertising market analysis could be done by using high –quality and reliable data from official statistics sources.
Strategic analysis of the market consists of a significant amount of tools that I will discuss in Methods. Managers and aspiring entrepreneurs should be accurate while analyzing data by these tools.
Analytical methods and tools are key to ensuring that consistency and an appropriate level of rigor is applied to the analysis. 
There are a number of important considerations to be aware of when using analytical tools in strategic analysis:  
1. The tool must help to answer the question that the organization has asked.  
2. The expected benefit of using the tool needs to be defined and it must be actionable. The more clearly the tool has been defined, the more likely the analysis will be successful.  
3. Many tools benefit from input and collaboration with other people, functions or even organizations. There should be sufficient time for collaboration and advance warning given so that people can accommodate the analysis.  
4. Proper use of analytical tools may be time consuming. It is important to ensure that key stakeholders, for example, the board, senior directors and company departments are aware of this. Otherwise they may not be able to provide the necessary commitment to complete the analysis. 
The aim of the analytical tool is to sharpen the focus of the analysis and to ensure a methodical, balanced approach. (Downey, 2007, p.4)
As a whole, the discussed literature source reflects a significant aspiration to deepen theoretical thinking about market analysis of the advertising services industry in Perm.

Methods
In this part of the proposal I will explain the methods that will be used in carrying out the study, paying a special attention to the analysis of data. From the outset it should be explained that the methodology used is to a certain extent an evolving one and will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing. I will use mostly qualitative approaches, such as questionnaires and in-depth interviews with heads of advertising agencies and their customers. Also, the research will contains quantitative approaches, for instance, information from statistical databases, market research data and economic indicators of advertising services market in Perm. 
The strategic analysis tools are the most significant analysis techniques that I will apply in my research: Porter’s Five Forces, PEST Analysis, SWOT Analysis, Value Chain Analysis and others. Further more detailed description of methods that I will use:
Porter’s Five Forces Analysis is based on the concept that there are five forces which determine the competitive intensity and attractiveness of a market. It helps to identify where power lies in a business situation. This is useful both in understanding the strength of an organization’s current competitive position, and the strength of a position that an organization may look to move into. Also, it could be useful to understand whether new products or services are potentially profitable. 
PEST analysis is a scan of the external macro-environment in which an organization exists. It is a useful tool for understanding the political, economic, socio-cultural and technological environment that an organization operates in. It can be used for evaluating market growth or decline, and as such the position, potential and direction for a business.
SWOT is an acronym for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. This is important not only for business planning but also for presenting a case to lenders. Since they will want to see that an entrepreneur has addressed both the negatives and positives of an advertising enterprise. SWOT analysis could help to compete by emphasizing positives and neutralizing negatives.
Value Chain Analysis is based on the principle that organizations exist to create value for their customers. In the analysis, the organization’s activities are divided into separate sets of activities that add value. The organization can more effectively evaluate its internal capabilities by identifying and examining each of these activities. Each value adding activity is considered to be a source of competitive advantage.
This methodological framework becomes actually urgent at the present time for a qualitative strategic analysis of the advertising services market. 

Results Anticipated
The research is expected to come out of analysis with theoretical contribution, which is confined in understanding how using strategic analysis tools may affect the research of advertising services market and the preparation of a business plan. 
First of all, the research outcomes may help to an entrepreneur to prepare a recommendable theoretical basis for the marketing research by using books and articles considered in this project. Then it could be useful to make data analysis of advertising services industry. 
The results of analysis may also be implemented to answer the following questions: What was the size of the advertising services market by value in 2015 in Perm? What will be the size of the advertising services market in 2020 Perm? What factors are affecting the strength of competition in the advertising market? This is the short fragment of the whole list of questions.

Conclusion
Strategic analysis of advertising services market cannot be conducted without an understanding of the advertising environment. The environment of advertising consists of consumer attitudes, competitive strategic opportunity, and institutional capacity to implement a full marketing program. All the above is necessary to study thoroughly for creating a new business structure.
To sum up, the given research is likely to formulate recommendations for preparing a business plan based on strategic analysis of the advertising services market in Perm. I suppose that the outcomes of my research may be a very valuable background for future managers and entrepreneurs who want to organize their own business connected with advertising services in Perm.

















