Introduction
In this paper of present proposal, I am going to consider the relevance of the study, to designate the purpose and the research problems and state the professional significance of the study.
Background. Most companies all over the world suffered consequences of economic crises. Due to the recession in economy, many organizations have regretted the large amounts of capital that have been invested in inventory. As soon as crisis begins consumer ability of the population is extremely reduced. Therefore, liquidity of company’s inventory also have reduced. For this reason, it is important to make qualitative forecast of inventory especially during economic recession.

Problem Statement. The general purpose of this paper is to provide management and operators who have direct responsibility for inventory with guidance that should lead to improved effectiveness.
Within this broad purpose the following questions will be addressed:
What inventory control system currently use in the company?
What kinds of inventories are more important for the company?
Is it possible to reduce or refuse from some inventories?
What economic benefits will be brought by the entered changes?

Delimitations of the Study. In my paper I am going to use only ABC analysis as this method is most appropriate for improving inventory management system. It allows to demonstrate what inventories should be reduced and what should be more effectively controlled.

Professional significance. This study will be a significant endeavor in improving inventory management system. The results will be beneficial to the logistic managers and directors of the company when they decided about optimal inventory level. By right understanding the needs of the company in inventories, it brings to the company a competitive advantage. Moreover, this research will provide some universal recommendations which manager may apply when optimize the company’s inventory system. 

Literature review
A huge number of literature on Inventory Management provides a basis for the present work. The word inventory has been defined in many ways as indicated in literature. Three definitions have been chosen seem to be more appropriate to the topic developed in this paper. According to Ling Li (2007) inventory is the stock of any item or resource in an organization.
Max Muller in his book (2011) described Inventory as complex of stocks that include a company’s raw materials, work in process, supplies used in operations and finished goods.
According to D. Chandra Bose (2006), inventories are resources of any kind having an economic value, therefore, inventory control consists of planning and devising procedures to maintain an optimal level of these resources at which costs are minimum.
Inventories can be divided into four main groups depending on the stage in the production process (Lancioni, 1978):
Raw materials. Materials that have arrived from suppliers and kept in stock until needed for operations;
Component. A component is a subassembly of the item being manufactured and which requires further processing;
Work in process. Units that are currently being worked in;
Finished goods. Items that are ready to be moved to a customer.
As practice shows, every organization considers it important to hold every type of inventories. Each company defines for what reason they should holding inventory by themselves. Some of important reasons according to Max Muller (2011) for obtaining and holding inventory are:
Fluctuations in demand. The organizations create inventories to smooth demand fluctuations. Sometimes it is hardly to predict how much raw materials or finished goods you need at a given time, but organization still need to satisfy customer or production demand on time.
Predictability. This is opposite situation when company can clearly predict any shifts in demand. As a result, organization purposefully increases or reduces inventories to satisfy demand in future at given level.
Unreliability of supply. This kind of inventories protect company from unreliable suppliers or when a product is rare and it is rather difficult to arrange steady deliveries. The author also added that unreliable suppliers should be replaced or if it ii not possible, company can apply penalties and deductions.
Price protection. Such kind of reason also called speculative motive. If company assumed that in the future purchase price will grow or fall, it is expedient to increase or reduce level of inventory to avoid the impact of cost inflation.
As it was considered above, there are several motives for holding inventories. However, it should be noted that hanging of stocks increases costs. Therefore, the management of the company needs to balance the benefits and drawbacks of both low and high level of inventories.
There are two main types of costs related with inventory (Ling, 2007): holding cost and ordering or set-up costs.
The main idea for keeping inventory low is due to cost of holding inventory. Capital which company invested in inventory cannot be used for other investment. This type of cost includes storage, facilities, handling, insurance, taxes and the opportunity cost of capital (Ling, 2007).
The main reason for keeping inventory high is due to the cost of replenishing inventory. Ordering cost or set-up cost are the two major types of costs. The first one includes managerial and clerical costs witch related with preparing the purchase. The last one includes equipment setups, filling out required papers and material handling activities (Ling, 2007). Therefore, it is better for companies to make a less number of orders to apply economy from scale (Keith Howard, 1974).
In inventory management there are four basic models of creation and replenishment of stocks, organization of continuous control and operational planning of deliveries (Keith, 1974). Further, the main characteristics of each model will be considered.
Inventory control system with the fixed order size
The order size in this system is the fundamental parameter, which is defined first. It is strictly record and does not change under no circumstances. The order moves at the moment when the current stock reaches threshold level. If the arrived order does not fill up system to threshold level, the new order is made in day of receipt of the order.
Threshold level of a stock pays off as the volume of a stock, which will be consumed during delivery taking into account preservation of an insurance stock. In the absence of failures in deliveries, receipt of the order happens at the moment when the size of a stock reaches insurance level. The insurance stock allows providing requirement for the period of the greatest possible estimated delay in delivery. Completion of an insurance stock is made during the subsequent deliveries. In the absence of failures in deliveries and the optimum amount of delivery, it is resupplied to the maximum desirable level.
Inventory control system with the fixed time interval between orders
In this system orders become strictly certain time points through equal intervals of time, for example two time a week or once a month. As the moment of the order is defined in advance and invariable, it is constantly required to recalculate order volume. The volume of the order is determined by the principle of completion of an inventory to the maximum desirable level taking into account consumption during delivery. Time interval between orders (the delivery period) is counted usually, and then can be corrected. For example, at the received settlement result four days it is possible to use the period of five days to submit orders once a week.
Inventory control system with the established frequency of replenishment of inventory to constant level
In this system orders are made both in the fixed planned time points and at achievement by an inventory of threshold level. The volume of the order is determined by the principle of completion of an inventory to the maximum desirable level respectively from flowing or the threshold level of stock and taking into account consumption during delivery. 
Distinctive feature of system is that orders share on two categories: 
Planned which give through the set time intervals; 
Additional, at decrease in stocks in a warehouse to threshold level.
Need of additional orders can appear at a deviation of rates of consumption from the planned.
Therefore, this system includes an element of system with the fixed time interval between orders (the established frequency of registration of the order) and an element of system with the fixed order size (tracking of a threshold stock rate). Unlike the main systems, it is focused on work at considerable fluctuations of consumption.
Inventory control system Minimum Maximum
In this system orders are made in the fixed planned time points but provided that at this point current inventory is equal or less than the established minimum level. The volume of the order is determined by the principle of completion of an inventory to the maximum desirable level.
This system works with two stock rates – minimum (threshold) and maximum and contains elements of system with the fixed time interval between orders (a constant interval between deliveries) and systems with the fixed order size (use of threshold level). The minimum maximum system is focused on a situation when costs of the accounting of stocks and costs for registration of the order are so considerable that become commensurable with losses from deficiency of stocks

Methods
This part of the proposal explain the method used in carrying out the study. There are various methods for analyzing inventory management system of company. In this paper will be used ABC analysis. This method offers a practical way to implement of improving inventory management system.
ABC analysis also called Pareto analysis or the rule of 80/20 is a way of categorizing inventory items into different types depending on value and use. It is considered as the best approach and based on the principle of selective control.
Pareto’s Law states: Within any given group of items to be controlled, only a small per cent of those items will be important (Keith, 1974). In other words, most part of the organization’s inventories do not make any significant contribution while those few items have the greatest effect on the group.
The ABC analysis used a principle of categorize products or inventories based on importance. This method supposed to divide on various factors all inventories into three classes A, B and C. The defending analysis factor may be sales volume, profitability, cost intensity, lead-time and others. Once the ranking factor is chosen, break points are chosen for classes. Below each group described in details.
Class A: this are inventories that make about 80 per cent of company’s profit and it is first 20 per cent of inventories. This group requires maximum control.
Class B: this group consists from next 20 per cent of inventories but they make approximately 10 per cent of profit. Such inventories requires a normal amount of control.
Class C: this class contains the remaining 60 per cent of all inventories and make just 10 per cent of profit. They require a minimum amount of control.
In different companies, a 20-20-60 split may vary. Therefore, model must be adapted for each individual inventory. Moreover, there is a modified version of ABC analysis, which has an additional class D. This class includes illiquid inventories that companies cannot use for a long period.

Results anticipated
The final part or the proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the method mentioned. The purpose of this paper is to develop appropriate inventory management system that will allow the company optimize its business processes.
I have expected that by applying ABC analysis for organization’s inventory system I could give individual recommendations for company about their stocks. According this recommendations, I have supposed to developed appropriate inventory system which will allows to company reduce costs in short-term period and increase a profit in long-term period.

Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. There are several factors, which make it important to optimize the inventories in organization. First of all, the unstable situation in economy. As a result, of crisis companies have to reduce their costs and use their capital more effectively. One of ways to make it improve organization’s inventory system. Moreover, in the Russian companies inventory management system rather differs from American or European systems. Therefore, it is important to develop individual inventory system for each company.
In my research, I have applied ABC method witch give me opportunity to reveal what types of inventory exist in company. This step helps me to give recommendations to the director of the company about managing their stocks. The company could reduce their costs in short-term period and increase profit in long-term period by applying suggested developments.


