Introduction
Background
The development of organization is a very complex process that may be influenced by both positive and negative factors. The problems that occur in the company are usually the result of the negative external and/or internal environment influence on the organizational operations and its overall performance. This negative external environment may reflect in high tax and inflation rate levels or economic and political instability; the negative internal environment of the organization may reflect in lack of finance, not optimized production and managing processes, and, for example, deficit of innovation technology. However, the ineffective organizational performance may occur due to the lack of specific knowledge and qualifications of top-management about the competition analysis, strategic planning, and costs reduction methods.
One should note here that there is lack of effective strategies in the Russian market, especially in small and medium enterprises (SMEs). In order to operate effectively, management of the organization has to analyze and assess not only its own competitive advantages and strategic planning, but also those of peers and competitors. This analysis can be conducted through the strategic diagnostics, as it is the first stage of the company’s strategy development.

Problem Statement
The aim of the research is the company’s strategic analysis on the base of theoretical and methodological background, and the strategic plan development for a fashion boutique Maria Korzun. In order to make the research detailed the objectives were formulated:
to analyze the essence and the basic concepts of strategic planning;
to make an overview of the methods of strategic analysis;
to analyze different approaches to strategic;
to make an overview of the company under investigation;
to conduct the strategy diagnostics and assess the competitive advantages of the fashion boutique Maria Korzun;
to develop the strategic plan for the company;
to develop the strategy implementing methods.

Delimitations of the Study
The main delimitation of the research is that the results obtained may be further applied only to the similar businesses. This is because the specific features of the research and due to the fact that it is conducted for a particular company that operates in Perm market.
Another delimitation is the size of the firm, so the results may be successfully operationalized to small and medium enterprises. However, one should remember that the strategic planning of one business cannot be fully applied to another due to the differences in organizational structure, the structure and specific features of the workforce, the type of the leadership and other firms’ characteristics.
Finally, the results of the study may be of interest mainly to the organizations that work in the same market sector, i.e. the textile and clothing sector. Hence, the research outcomes are going to be specific and have to be operationalized accurately to other businesses.

Professional Significance
The professional significance of the research is that it will provide the information about the company’s competitive advantages. In addition, it will give the basis for the strategy formulation and its further implementation. As a result, the fashion boutique Maria Korzun may improve its performance in the market.

Definitions of Key Terms
Strategy – “plan or method for achieving a particular goal usually over a long period of time” (Strategy, An Encyclopedia Britannica Company, 2015)
Strategic planning – “A systematic process of envisioning a desired future, and translating this vision into broadly defined goals or objectives and a sequence of steps to achieve them” (Strategic planning, Business Dictionary, 2015).
SWOT-analysis – that is the analysis of the company based on the analysis of internal Strengths and Weaknesses, and external Opportunities and threats. 
PEST-analysis – that is the analysis of the company based on assessment of Political, Economic, Socio-Cultural and Technological characteristics of the internal and external environment of the organization. 

Literature Review
Lots of researchers, such as I. Ansoff, A. A. Thompson, A. J. Strickland, M. Porter, R. Kaplan, have discussed the problem of strategic planning. The essence of strategic planning and the integral aspects of strategic management as well as its principles and methods have been analyzed through years of research. However, the previous research can provide only general information on the issue, and it is connected mainly with the economy. There is also lack of research and scientific data on the strategic management in goods and services trading sphere. 
The term strategic management itself was introduced in 1960-70s due to the fact that the problem of operational and top management processes separation has arisen. Michael Porter, Igor Ansoff, and other scientists have further developed the main ideas of strategic management. The strategic management development has also resulted in the advent of various approaches and management schools that were structured by Henry Mintzberg. Mintzberg et al. (2005) in the book “Strategy Safari: A Guided Tour through the Wilds of Strategic Management” describes 10 strategic schools where the main approaches to the strategy development process are discussed. These 10 schools, in turn, are divided into three groups. 
The schools of the first group – The Design School, The Planning School and The Positioning School – describe the strategy in the “TO-BE” form, that is the strategy as it has to be in the organization, the ideal model that every company strives for. The main aim of these schools is to provide the competitive advantage to the organization. Within the framework of these schools, the company’s strategy depends on the top-management and it will be successful if correctly implemented.
The schools of the second group – The Entrepreneurial School, The Cognitive School, The Learning School, The Power School, The Cultural School, and The Environmental school – describe the strategy in the “AS-IS” form, that is the strategy as it is in the organization. The aim of these schools is to provide the most reliable information about strategy development and its implementation as all the recommendations on strategy improvement may be given only after the current strategy analysis. 
Finally, the last school – The Configuration School – describes the strategy within the environmental context of the organization. This means that the company’s strategy shapes depending on the internal and external factors that influence on it.
It has to be mentioned, each strategic school has its limitations that has to be taken into account during their implementation process, and typical tools that may be used more effectively within the context of one or another schools group.
Analyzing all the aforementioned schools one has to note that not all the schools are used in the modern companies and enterprises. Hence, every organization has to choose the most appropriate methods of the strategy development depending on their operational performance and other key characteristics. For example, companies that operate in the sphere of consulting prefer using the first three schools (The Design School, The Planning School and The Positioning School). 
In contrast to Mintzberg, De Wit et al. (1999) describes the approaches to strategic management. In the book “Strategy Synthesis: Resolving Strategy Paradoxes to Create Competitive Advantage” he compares points of view of various authors and scientists who discuss the strategic management issues, i.e. the strategy implementation, the extent of coordination among firms in  a particular market sector, and the extent of firm’s market sector independence.
Taking into account different approaches to strategic management it can be stated that during the strategic planning process companies should rely on the previous research background and choose the way of strategy construction improvement taking into consideration the variety of approaches given.
During the strategy planning process, the overall analysis of the current strategy in the organization has to be conducted. Various approaches and methods of strategy analysis can be applied at the time of investigation. Among these methods the SWOT analysis and PEST analysis. The SWOT-analysis is the “tool for organizing information, presenting solutions, identifying roadblocks and emphasizing opportunities” (Goodrich, 2015). The main aims of this method are:
to define the trends in the internal and external environment of the organization;
to structure and analyse the data obtained;
to propose recommendations of the strategy development.
In spite of the fact that this method of environment analysis is useful to the organizations, it has some disadvantages, i.e. the problems in identification of specific environmental features. Moreover, the method is vague and inaccurate to some extent, and there is lack of short-term decisions.
PEST- analysis, as well as SWOT-analysis, describes the environment of the organization. However, this type of analysis is aimed at external environment assessment in terms of Political, Economic, Socio-cultural and Technological factors. These are the typical steps of PEST-analysis:
to make a list of factors that have a high influence on the organization;
to assess the probability of every factor appearance;
to assess the extent of the influence of each factor on the organization;
to define the weighted estimates of each factor and the sum of these estimates.
PEST-analysis allows the company to get information about its ability to react to the changes in external environment.
There are a lot more methods that help the company to assess it strategy realization, the overall process of strategic planning, and the internal and external environment of the organization. However, organizations usually decide to choose only few of these methods, so the quality of the analysis may then be decreased.

Methods
The methods applied in the research are the following. Firstly, the analysis of the literature will be conducted in order to explore in-depth the methods and techniques of strategic analysis and planning. Moreover, it will allow choosing the most appropriate assessing methods to analyze the strategy and competitive advantages of a fashion boutique Maria Korzun.
Secondly, the balanced scorecards method will be applied. This will structure and formalize the strategy of the organization for it to be more effective. Another method that will be used in the research is SWOT-analysis. This will help to assess the internal and external environment of the organization in terms of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats. The data gained through SWOT-analysis may then be used by the company top-management. 
Thirdly, the PEST-analysis will be conducted during the investigation process. PEST-analysis allows assessing the external environment of the organization in order to define the factors that have a positive or negative influence on the company. It is also planned to assess the company’s market position. This assessment is possible due to the method developed by the Boston Consulting Group – the BCG-matrix. The 2x2 matrix reflects four possible company’s positions depending on the market share of the organization, and the market growth rate. 
Finally, the Porter five forces analysis will be applied. This method will help to analyze the competitiveness of the organization in the market and the overall industry competition. The data obtained throughout the research will be then give to the management of the organization. 

Results Anticipated
The results anticipated may be the following. The data about market positions and the strategy of organization obtained during the research will be processed, and a number of conclusions may then be derived. It is suggested that a fashion boutique Maria Korzun has a strong market position and an extended customer base.
Moreover, the SWOT- and PEST-analyses will provide the structured information about the internal and external factors that influence on the company. Thus, one of the results anticipated is that the main Strength of the company is its production range, however, within the current market context there will be a Threat of going bankrupt.  If other environmental factors are correctly identified, this will allow providing more accurate and precise recommendations on further strategic planning in a fashion boutique Maria Korzun.
The other methods applied in the research may help in short-term and long-term strategy construction and planning. This, in turn, may positively influence the performance of the organization, its market share. For example, it is suggested that there may be an increase in customer base or in the workforce morale and loyalty if the recommendations given after the research are successfully implemented. Thus, if the investigation conducted is accurate and correct, the implementation of all the recommendations will result in increased effectiveness of a fashion boutique Maria Korzun.

Conclusion
The main conclusions are the following. Firstly, the development of the company’s strategy is a very time-consuming and complicated process that requires the specific knowledge of theoretical background and methods of strategic analysis in the organization.
In order to make an accurate analysis, the research requires the use of such methods as SWOT-analysis, PEST-analysis, the BCG-matrix, and the Porter five forces analysis. The methods listed above will allow obtaining the complex and structured data about internal and external environment of the organization, so that its distinctive features could be marked out.  Moreover, the data gained throughout the research will allow deriving grounded conclusions. 
The recommendation that is going to be developed in the end of the investigation will then be given to the top-management of the fashion boutique Maria Korzun for them to be used in the strategic planning and development in this organization.