INTRODUCTION
Background of the study. At present, researchers have quite various views on the social role of businesses. There are theories which treat the concept primarily from the commercial perspective and emphasize the beneficial component. However, one can encounter arguments in favor of certain tools driving business to being more “social”. The term “corporate social responsibility” is becoming more common in the business environment these days. A collaboration of a business entity and a non-profit organization is a proper way of being responsible for the way an enterprise influences the society. Non-profit organizations have started to adopt business-like techniques used in the for-profit sector since they appear to be under pressure by market drivers typical of for-profit organizations, like competition for funding and the need to earn money to fulfil their mission [2].

Problem statement. The above mentioned collaboration represents benefits for both parties – a business entity and a charity organization. The former gets the ability to promote itself and generate profits and the latter benefits in terms of reputation and fundraising. In order to make sure both parties benefit mutually and complement each other in a good way, a proper business model must be established to cover all stages of a partnership. Unlike the traditional interpretation of a business model including the opus magnum by Alexander Osterwalder, my hypothesis objects the only legitimate business model of business-charity collaboration. Therefore, I will not ground the project proposal on a single fundamental paper, since it will never be fully relevant and it does not reveal the essence of the subject. In the present proposal the major analysis principle is obviously complex, and my attention will be paid to adding some structural component to the investigation of the business-charity cooperation. In this research the emphasis is put rather on the development of cooperation ways mutually beneficial to partnering institutions, not on the development of ways to increase commercial returns.

Delimitations of the study. The study primarily evolves around Perm charity fund “Dedmorozim” whose major objective is to retain more volunteers and spread the notion of charity around the country. In the paper I will analyze the benefits being gained by the fund when collaborating with any commercial enterprise and vice versa. More importantly, it is expected that the charity giver becomes present in the business model as well as the fund and commercial entities. Hence, the model I am attempting to develop includes the fund, which is a “giver” of the opportunity to help, a commercial enterprise – an intermediary to communicate the fund’s values and objectives, and finally there is an individual – a receiver of the fund’s message asking for help.

Professional significance. The reason to develop this “mutually beneficial business model” is very simple. Businesses urge to retain customer trust and develop their corporate social responsibility strategies which tend to become a significant component of a company’s marketing plan. Moreover, it is a commercial interest which makes enterprises seek for various partners pursuing their own goals [4]. Charity organizations, in turn, seek for more “distribution channels” so that more and more people become aware of that someone needs their help and there are convenient ways to show your mercy. A human in this case has some kind of a middle position since it perceives both the NPO message and the commercial enterprise message and then reacts in a certain way. Overall, it can be stated that the development of a beneficial mechanism is a common concern of all parties engaged in the process.

Key terms and definitions. To ensure the reasonability of the proposal, the above mentioned term “Business model” should be defined. Business model, as proposed by Alexander Osterwalder, describes how an organization creates, delivers and captures value [3]. The concept consists of nine building blocks representing the company’s performance and the value it adds to itself. The business model canvas allows a company to conduct structured, tangible and strategic conversations around the existing business. 

Literature review 
The economy of Russia is in recession stage. As stated by HSE Center for Income Analysis, there is a substantial income decrease. The existing tendencies directly influence non-profit organizations. In 2013, nearly half of the respondents reported no opportunity to donate. 
Because the term “charity” is highly complicated and complex it is appropriate to resort to funds – non-governmental organizations aiming to put their missions into effect by performing voluntary activities to help the needy. 
The major tasks of a non-profit organization are the following: fundraising (either human or financial), priority programs establishment and the allocation of resources among the needy (Mokwa, 1990).
The actual history of business modelling began in the last century in works by largely American scholars. Since the research field is quite contemporary, we cannot challenge doctrines of the American scholars because there is no other view on the subject yet. Nonetheless, the established framework suggests further elaboration on the topic. Hence, in the paper I will not question the legitimacy of scholars’ insight, but rather attempt to concentrate on implementation of what has been discovered. The issue with works on non-profit organizations is that they are hardly concerned about the commercial partnerships. Therefore, there is no large body of literature on the subject up to date. Most recent journal articles largely regard social entrepreneurship and cover questions concerning starting a business in the non-profit sector. In 2002, the United Kingdom Charity Commission has issued a report called “Charities and commercial partners”. The paper is valuable since it names and lists the values associated with a commercial partnership, the so-called “barriers to entry” a commercial partnership with risks of all kinds, legitimacy and taxation issues and tips on how to ensure that a partnership is successful. Philip Kotler’s “Marketing for Non-Profit organizations” provides the general principles of marketing various goods for the society and the population.
As a relatively new feature, the perspective does not appear much in academic papers yet. On the whole, the evolving concept will be thoroughly examined in the project proposal.

Methods employed
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out this study. It should be made clear at the outset that the methodology involved will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing. The necessity for a single methodological framework has become urgent in our times. 
In order to define the benefits for partnering institutions, a financial analysis of the fund’s performance is to be carried out. The data which will be analyzed includes the statistics of sales of products under the previous conjoint campaigns of “Dedmorozim” and Perm retail chain “Vivat”. Moreover, I will concentrate on the internal data of the fund to define what entities it is sensible to partner with. The data is expected to be collected via the interview of several fund’s employees and the executive staff as well. Moreover, to do a thorough analysis it is essential to interview the citizens of Perm who sometimes donate or do voluntary jobs. This will bring me to the motives of those people and, therefore, I will be able to make conclusions on what drivers the fund should use to make this person donate in the future.
To develop a business model itself, I am going to use Osterwalder’s techniques including Value Proposition Design, Prototyping and Business Processes Design. Value Proposition Design implies what “jobs” people usually hire something to do, what pain they have in mind and what gain the agent may bring. In Prototyping stage I will be working on the collaboration mechanism to be used by the fund in the future. Designing the Business Processes will allow systematizing the existing expertise on the subject.

Results anticipated
After the study is completed, I expect to come up with a model of how institutions should cooperate to generate their respective benefits (either reputational or commercial). Thus, one of the tasks to accomplish is to ensure the reliability and the validity of the data gathered so that it supports the analysis. This study mostly represents the need for an additional research on the problem in question.

CONCLUSION
In this descriptive study I am going to bring the following theses to the foreground. First of all, I intend to argue in favor of a transformation of an understanding of the way businesses and NPOs currently interact which is considered inappropriate in explaining the meaning of “mutually beneficial” cooperation between the two parties. Using the analysis results and interview outcomes I intend to demonstrate that there are several means which could make the cooperation beneficial for all sides participating. Finally, I will attempt suggest some avenues for future research.



