Introduction
Background of the Study. The development of fitness services in Russia started in the beginning of the 1990th in the Premium class segment, due to the fact that visiting sport clubs was considered as fashionable and expensive method of pastime. Nevertheless, the quantity of fitness clubs for middle class promptly increased within the period from 2003 to 2008. The economic crisis of 2008 suspended the development of the industry, however in 2010 the market of fitness centers have been resumed. The major factors influenced the increase of consumer demand on sport services are: increase in solvency of the population, promoting and prestigiousness of sports activities, raising attention of the population to health and a physical form. 
Nowadays, fitness industry becomes more and more demanded around the world. According to the results of the research conducted by the «Expressobzor» company on rates of  the fitness industry development takes the second place in the world after high technologies. The most active people who are engaged in fitness centers are Americans, Canadians and Norwegians. In Russia the level of sports activity is still rather low. If in the USA the share of the population which is going in for physical culture constitutes 40%, in Russia – no more than 15%. However, rising health-care costs and reforms are making healthy lifestyle more attractive for Russian public. Media attention on the benefits of fitness and the need to reduce obesity is opening up new angles for target marketing. 

Problem Statement. The main aim of the research proposal is to study existing fitness industry and to develop the strategic plan of functioning of a new fitness centre. Within this broad purpose the following questions will be addressed:
What are the key players in the market of fitness services?
What are the factors influencing a customer choice of sport club?
What are the barriers for the development of the new sport centre in Perm?
How is it possible to use the existing situation in the fitness market for establishing a successful business structure?

Professional Significance. The research study will be of a primary significance to people who want to establish own business in the fitness industry. They may use the findings for better understanding of the key points of strategic analysis and how to use it for any market. New original ideas, technologies and solutions can be the basis for writing a business plan. Therefore, I consider the present research will identify the existing problems of the fitness industry in Perm.

Delimitations of the Study. The study findings will be limited by the selection of involved fitness companies due to their territorial apartness and size. The present research will be conducted in Perm considering large and medium fitness clubs. The further limitations will be provided by the method of data collection. The usage of secondary data which will generally include non-quantitative information will constrict the bounds of the research. 

Literature Review
The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature on the strategic management. This section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. The theoretical review starts off with the explanation of key concepts of strategic analysis in the context of different tools. According to Treat, Thibault and Asin (1996), strategic analysis is the process of conducting research on the business environment within which an organization operates and on the organization itself, in order to formulate strategy. Definitions of strategic analysis often differ, but the following attributes are commonly associated with it: identification and evaluation of data relevant to strategy formulation, definition of the external and internal environment to be analyzed, a range of analytical methods that can be employed in the analysis [7]. Different sets of methods are provided in literature but most often strategic analysis includes: 
SWOT analysis;
PEST analysis;
Porter’s five forces analysis;
four corner’s analysis;
value chain analysis;
early warning scans;
war gaming.
One of the key works found during the literature search for the proposed study is the article by Worrell (1998). The author suggests that Analytical methods and tools are key to ensuring that consistency and an appropriate level of rigour is applied to the analysis. There are a number of important considerations to be aware of when using analytical tools:
1. The tool must help to answer the question that the organization has asked.
2. The expected benefit of using the tool needs to be defined and it must be actionable. The more clearly the tool has been defined, the more likely the analysis will be successful.
3. Many tools benefit from input and collaboration with other people, functions or even organizations. There should be sufficient time for collaboration and advance warning given so that people can accommodate the analysis.
4. Proper use of analytical tools may be time consuming. It is important to ensure that key stakeholders, for example, the board, senior directors and company departments are aware of this. Otherwise they may not be able to provide the necessary commitment to complete the analysis.
Martin and Olin (1982) considered that the aim of the strategic tool is to sharpen the focus of the analysis and to ensure a methodical, balanced approach. All strategic tools rely on historical, backward looking data to extrapolate future assumptions. It is important to exercise caution when interpreting strategic analysis results. Otherwise the analysis may be unduly influenced by preconceptions or pressures within the organization which seek to validate a particular strategic assumption.
It is worthwhile to dramatically narrow the focus of investigation and to consider only the few from these methods. It is reasonable to begin with SWOT analysis. A SWOT analysis is a simple but widely used tool that helps in understanding the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats involved in a project or business activity.
It starts by defining the objective of the project or business activity and identifies the internal and external factors that are important to achieving that objective. Strengths and weaknesses are usually internal to the organization, while opportunities and threats are usually external. Often these are plotted on a simple 2x2 matrix.
It is necessary to review the second method of strategic analysis – PEST analysis. According to Reich (2000), PEST analysis is a scan of the external macro-environment in which an organization exists. It is a useful tool for understanding the political, economic, socio-cultural and technological environment that an organization operates in. It can be used for evaluating market growth or decline, and as such the position, potential and direction for a business. It is also worth noting that the four paradigms of PEST vary in significance depending on the type of business. For example, social factors are more obviously relevant to consumer businesses, in this case for fitness services. Conversely, political factors are more obviously relevant to a aerospace manufacturer.
Porter's five forces of competitive position analysis were developed in 1979 by Michael E. Porter of Harvard Business School as a simple framework for assessing and evaluating the competitive strength and position of a business organization.
This theory is based on the concept that there are five forces which determine the competitive intensity and attractiveness of a market. Porter’s five forces help to identify where power lies in a business situation. This is useful both in understanding the strength of an organization’s current competitive position, and the strength of a position that an organization may look to move into.
Strategic analysts often use Porter’s five forces to understand whether new products or services are potentially profitable. By understanding where power lies, the theory can also be used to identify areas of strength, to improve weaknesses and to avoid mistakes.
The five forces are:
1. Supplier power. An assessment of how easy it is for suppliers to drive up prices.
2. Buyer power. An assessment of how easy it is for buyers to drive prices down.
3. Competitive rivalry. The key driver is the number and capability of competitors in the market.
4. Threat of substitution. Where close substitute products exist in a market, it increases the likelihood of customers switching to alternatives in response to price increases.
5. Threat of new entry. Profitable markets attract new entrants, which erodes profitability.
The study bears upon the most elementary fundamentals of strategic analysis. The approach has not undergone a root and branch transformation for the last years. Besides strategic analysis I should examine the structure of business plan. Brooks and Stevens (1987) describe the business plan as “…a process you undertake to help make your company grow, to increase profits, or to develop and market a product idea or service.” (p. 2). According to Gumpert, the planning process is much the same for non-profit and government organizations as for business. These organizations need to develop a strategy, target their markets, focus on product and/or service quality, and attend to all the other matters that a business must consider. But in addition to business considerations, nonbusiness organizations must pay attention to an additional factor: their governing constituencies.
As mentioned above, although the contents and focus of a business plan will vary somewhat based on its intended purpose and audience, for the most part a business plan contains the following: cover page, table of contents, executive summary, company overview, market analysis, competitor analysis, products and/or services offered, marketing, sales, and promotion strategies, information on the organization’s management team, and financials. All the above review indicates that a strategic analysis tends to be the key driver of writing business plan.

Methodology
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study giving special emphasis to the analysis of the data collected. It should be made clear at the outset that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing.
The general research perspective is qualitative – it will mainly focus on primary and secondary data including questionnaire, companies’ overviews and different tools of the strategic analysis. The questionnaire will include questions about sex, age, education, the average monthly income of the individual and monthly expenses on fitness clubs. In addition, there will be questions related to the factors influencing consumer behavior and choice of fitness services. The information collected will be systematized in a specific order to form several aspects to be studied during the research. Moreover, the results of questionnaire will promote in writing a successful business plan.
The research methodology is based on the use of strategic analysis by means of several tools such as Porter’s Five Forces analysis, SWOT analysis, PEST analysis, Key Performance Indicator, Four Corner’s analysis and others. By means of these tools it will turn out to analyze internal and external environmental factors of the fitness industry, price strategy of competitors and their line item in the market. Mainly it is necessary to determine a niche for future business structure. At this stage the number of companies has not been identified, but it is expected to consider approximately from seven to ten organizations representing fitness industry in Perm. The final list of participating fitness clubs will be constituted when the priority niche is determined.

Results Anticipated
The following part of the proposal presents the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The goal of the study is to discover people’s attitude to sport activities, to analyze fitness industry in Perm and to develop a business plan at the end of the research. According to this purpose, I expect to reach the following results:
to determine a niche for future business structure;
to develop a strategy of entry into the market of fitness services;
to work out a financial part for opening fitness club;
to write a business plan.
The presentation of the results will use an appropriate organizational pattern. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. The primary data which are obtained by questionnaire will be presented in tables. Some data of the strategic analysis will be shown in figures and schedules. All other results will be reported in the narrative text. The proposal will have some theoretical implications. By accomplishing the research project it would be extremely interesting to receive information which is hardly presented in media sources and literature as the market of fitness services almost was not studied in Perm.

Conclusion
To conclusion, I would like to briefly indicate the main ideas of the research. The problem of the study concerns development of the fitness market in Perm which is increasing at the present time and faces some barrier factors for the new players. The project is devoted to study of the strategic aspects influencing the development of the new business in the fitness industry. The punch line of the study follows directly from Allen Z. Reich's work and mainly bases on his opinion that the usage of the strategic analysis questioning process provides planners with a model to help determine key situational variables and the viability of potential strategies for a new business structure. Using the results of strategic analysis I intend to demonstrate that a particular set of strategic tools will be suitable for the purposes of typological analysis in the best way. 
In general, it will be possible to make some generalisations and outline the theoretical background for future research. Taking everything into consideration, I can state that the project will be an attempt to investigate the fitness industry in Perm and to develop the structured business plan for establishing a new fitness center.