Introduction
Individual consumers have quickly embraced the practice of using a variety of channels through which to make their purchases, as 65–70% of them are multichannel shoppers (Kelley School of Business, 2007).

Background of the study. In recent years, multichannel marketing has grown tremendously and is anticipated to grow even further. While we have developed a good understanding of certain issues such as the relative value of a multichannel customer over a single channel customer, several research and managerial questions still remain. Indeed, multichannel shoppers (defined as those who utilize a variety of different purchasing channels, including bricks-and-mortar stores, the telephone, and the Internet) are now in the majority, and spend significantly more than single-channel shoppers. 

Problem statement. Given this reality, it is critical that organizations adopt a multichannel mindset and try to employ a multichannel marketing program, as these can enhance profitability, the customer experience, and customer satisfaction. This is true for the large companies such as Dell, Virgin, Apple, but representatives from small business cannot find some example which explains how to bring it to life. It is the aim of this paper to provide the given firm with guidance in developing an effective multichannel mindset and in designing a multichannel marketing program for serving end-consumers. 
Within the broad purpose the following aspects will be examined:
Competitors' companies overview from a perspective of multichannel strategy;
Economic analysis of the given firm;
Porter five forces analysis;
Channel economic efficiency assessment.

Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be limited by poor development of accounting system of the given firm. It is a small business where the firm is anticipated, as a result, it will be extremely troublesome to gain the representative data about cash flow, profit and etc.
The further limitations will be provided by localization of the firm. Multichannel framework especially including the internet is to hard too measure. Due to the newness of this field, there are not great and trustworthy investigations about the effectiveness of a particular channel. Relatively recently only a study of e-commerce was carried out by DATAinsight, but it necessary to mention, that such an investigation is tremendously expensive and also needs a lot of time. Moreover, this data cannot be applicable to Perm Krai.  The given firm does not sell its goods outside the region. Hence, we cannot fully get the figures about the e-commerce market in Perm.
Finally, there will be limitations connected with performance evaluation of the mix of channels. Certainly, all the basic methods provide suitable assessments of the particular channel. Unfortunately, it is a poor economic and politic situation that influence people’s behaviour. And such methods like cost-benefit or breakeven do not take into account that people are scared of continuously decreasing rouble rate and endless increasing good’s price. Extending this pool of factors may result in the enhanced validity of the findings. 

Definitions of the key terms. Multichannel marketing is a strategy assuming communication with the end-costumer through different channels in order to enlarge firm’s profit and also to provide more convenient way to buy the product.

Literature Review 
A large body of literature on multichannel marketing provides a basis for present study. This section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. Since the advent of the Internet, organizations serving end-consumers in business to consumer (B2C) situations have grappled in a variety of ways with what has become known as multichannel marketing. Defined as marketing strategies for serving customers who use more than one channel when interacting with an organization (Rangaswamy & Van Bruggen, 2005), multichannel marketing presents firms with a great managerial challenge, as the systems are highly complex and involve a number of components, processes, and decisions, such as those concerning customers, channels for distribution, sales, and communication. Multichannel marketing systems are not only larger than single-channel systems, but also require integration, coordination, and the oversight of many components that previously functioned in a relatively independent manner. 
Studies, such as those by Doubleclick (Multichannel Shopping, 2004) and Gaffney (2005), confirm that consumers have taken quickly to using a variety of channels, as the incidence of multichannel shopping is in the range of 65–70%. McKay (2004) concurs, reporting that multichannel shoppers are now in the majority. Further, as highlighted by Kumar and Venkatasan (2005), multichannel shoppers spend significantly more than single-channel shoppers. While multichannel marketing is here to stay – it is, in fact, further evolving, as additional touchpoints such as wireless devices and associated services enter the marketplace – much more needs to be learned regarding its effective planning and implementation. While Berger, Lee, and Weinberg (2006) illustrate how multi- channel marketing can improve profitability, it is by no means an easy or widespread feat.
Multichannel marketers reach customers using a mix of channel formats, as a multichannel marketer's objectives are to distribute resources across the channel mix to satisfy customers and maximize profits (Montoya-Weiss, Voss, & Grewal, 2003; Moriarty & Moran, 1990). Using multiple channels broadens customers' exposure and access to a marketer's offerings (Montoya-Weiss et al., 2003).
Multichannel strategy and customer characteristics. Customers seek specific channels, as each channel has unique offerings that fulfil customers' need (Balasubramanian, Raghunathan, & Mahajan, 2005). Also, each channel attracts a specific type of customer, so that customers may not approach the firm if that type of channel is not available (Dholakia, Zhao, & Dholakia, 2005; Slater & Olson, 2002). Balasubramanian, Raghunathan, and Mahajan (2005) suggest that the following factors affect customers' choice of channels: 
Economic goals
Quest for affirmation
Symbolic meaning associated with the product and shopping 
Social interaction and experiential impact
Reliance on schemas for purchases. 
These factors influence channel choice at the three stages of the purchase process — creating a consideration set, choosing a product, and buying the product. Also, customers are becoming more “mobile”, that means that they use different channels at the same time. Smartphones make it easier to surf the internet towards finding out less expensive product than he watching at in the bricks-and-mortar store. Interestingly, customers accessing different channels also have different levels of loyalty and cross-buying. 
Extensive multichannel strategies increase coverage and allow firms to reach a higher proportion of customers by matching the needs of the customers. Some distribution channels are better at reaching certain types of customers, and multichannel strategies enable a firm to reach each type of customer. In addition, multichannel strategies allow customers to interact through the channel of their choice. 
Customers that interact across channels have higher sales and are more profitable than customers who use only one channel (Kumar & Venkatesan, 2005). In addition, multichannel customers provide higher revenues, higher share of wallet, and higher customer value, and have a higher likelihood of being active. Multichannel strategies aid in awareness and trial of the brand. Higher levels of awareness and trial lead to enhanced sales and profits. 
However, multichannel strategies besides positive have some negative aspects. The previous discussion suggests that firms should attempt to access as many different channel members as possible. Nevertheless, there are two reasons why an unlimited strategy may not be the most effective. First, the returns from additional channel members may not be high. Second, channel conflict could lead to channel members not promoting the firm's product, which in turn lead to negative returns in multichannel strategy.  
Another negative aspect will be provided by channel conflicts. When a number of distribution channels work in the same area, channel conflicts arise. This is due to the fact that extensive multichannel strategies lead to multiple channel members calling on the same client (Wiertz, de Ruyter, Keen, & Streukens, 2004). This also arises in the case of internal multichannels (Stone et al., 2002). Additionally, buyers have access to multiple price points. The problem is particularly troublesome when one channel member sells the product but another channel member gets the order, a consequence that is labelled “free rider” (van Baal & Dach, 2005). This is typically relevant when customers use a salesperson to understand the product but use the cheaper Internet channel to buy the product. It is estimated that 20% of customers are free riders. In severe cases, higher levels of inter-channel conflict in the context of multichannels will lead to a reduction in promoting the product or even a withdrawal (van Baal & Dach, 2005; Wiertz et al., 2004). 
Furthermore, there is a reduction in returns as a firm expands the number of channels. The sales from a new channel member may not cover the acquisition and retention costs. However, as a firm expands the number of channel members, sales of new channel members are typically less than sales from existing channel members (declining sales or returns). The reason is that the low-hanging fruits (higher sales distributors) are picked first. In addition, there is sales cannibalization with enhanced coverage that reduces the sales of both existing and new channel members.  
The summary of literature suggests that firms need to adopt multichannel strategies for increased presence, awareness, trial and sales. However, multichannel strategies may have two negative consequences that firms need to consider. First, firms have decreasing returns to scale and new channel members may actually be unprofitable. Second, potential channel conflict increases with increased multichannel presence. Therefore, firms need to consider the trade-offs of the benefits of multichannel strategy with potentially negative consequences. Moreover, company that choose to use the multichannel strategy has to control the economic performance, not the only channel efficiency, but the mix of them. It is significant to combine together in such a way as to improve its profit.  Two channels that work simultaneously can both disturb and help each other, it depends on how the company mixes them. We describe our methods of assessment the channel efficiency next. 

Methodology 
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. It should be noted at the out set that the methodology to a certain extent is evolving one, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing.
The general research perspective is qualitative – it will primarily focus on soft primary and secondary data which will include company overviews, different investigations on this field and expert commentaries. At this stage the number of companies has not been identified, but it is expected to consider approximately from three to seven organizations representing the same industry and situated in Perm Krai. The final list of participating firms will consist of companies, which have some recent experience of multichannel marketing implementation. 
Another piece of methodology is the economic analysis of a particular firm, which is an object of this investigation. Porter five forces analysis will be suitable to get the information we need.
Since the data has been collected, the appropriate methods is needed to continue the study. The choice will be made in favour of the economic efficiency assessment methods. The first is breakeven analysis. Based on the framework, we calculated two breakeven quantities. The current number of accounts was already provided to us. The first breakeven point that we calculated was based on the on both acquisition and retention costs. The second breakeven point was calculated by examining only retention costs. The second method of economic efficiency assessment is trade-off analysis. Using this method we calculated the profitability of adding or reducing customers. Then we compare the figures of the channels and then set priorities. After all assessments we will give recommendations on allocation resources between the channels.

Results anticipated 
The following part of the proposal reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. As stated in the in the introduction, the study reported here will examine in detail the channel efficiency assessment within the process of the implementation of the multichannel marketing. This part of the proposal is developed in terms of the specific questions posed in the beginning. It first will report about multichannel strategies of other firms in the market; it then will examine the given firm with the Porter five forces analyses and internal economic analysis; after it will assess the economic efficiency of the channels; and finally it will suggest the effective multichannel mindset.
The presentation of the results will use an appropriate pattern. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. Some complex data will be presented in tables. Some nonlinear relationships will be shown in figures. All other will be reported in the narrative text. For example, the correspondence between the channels that firms used will be presented in a table, while the financial allocations will be shown using a diagram.

Conclusion
In the last two decades, particularly with the advent of the Internet, multichannel strategies have become critical for business-to-customer marketing. This research will develop a framework that includes competitors' companies overview from a perspective of multichannel strategy; economic analysis of the given firm; Porter five forces analysis; channel economic efficiency assessment. The study will have some major theoretical implications, confirming and expanding the existing model, and it may provide some useful basis for practical activities.