Introduction
Background. Movement of material flows in the supply chain is impossible without stock concentration in certain places. Warehouse processes is connected with the human and material labor, so it increases the cost of goods. Therefore, the problems that are linked with the warehouse functioning have a significant impact on the material flows movement rationalization in the supply chain, the using of vehicles and distribution costs.
Modern warehouse - is a complex engineering structure, which consists of many interrelated elements, has a definite structure and performs a number of functions to transform the material flow. Moreover, it provides accumulation, processing and distribution of goods between consumers. Warehouse can be classified as a complex system, through the variety of parameters. At the same time, the warehouse is part of a high-level system - the logistics chain. It forms the technical requirements for storage system, sets goals and criteria of its functioning.
Poor warehouse system management is fraught with large operational and financial losses. Problems in stock may be associated with the wrong location, lack of production resources and poor organization of the warehouse structure. But the result of these errors always the same - the company gets less profit than it could.
Currently, the transportation costs are growing throughout the world economy. This leads to a growth in storage capacity and, as a consequence, increase the role of warehouse in the company .The experience of many companies shows that even a small warehouse system optimization leads to rise in the company's profits. This brings us to the fact that the warehousing study becomes relevance and significance in today business environment.

Problem Statement. The goal of this research is to analyze the warehousing system in the particular company and to develop certain proposals to optimize or improve it.
The main research objectives of present paper are:
To study the theoretical foundations of warehouse logistics;
To apply theoretical knowledge to analyze the warehousing system of the company;
Develop recommendations to improve the current system and suggest possible ways to optimize it.

Professional Significance. Current paper did not have a great theoretical innovation. Most of the fundamental concepts and hypotheses have been identified in multiple articles, writing in the early 2000s. Despite the fact that logistics is actively developing during all this time, basic approaches and methods remain the same.  Simultaneously, this study acquires practical importance, since the results of analysis and subsequent proposals for optimization can be used by management to improve the warehousing systems.

Delimitations of the study. Analysis of the company’s warehousing system will be conducted in Perm logistics companies. It will be one of the limitations of the study because the received information does not give us an idea about the industry as a whole. Another limitation may be related to the time of data collection and analysis. The results of these procedures can provide only approximate values, as the market situation may vary over time. The last problem, which may arise, is that it will be rather difficult to acquire information that necessary for analysis. Because some information is considered to be confidential and the company management may restrict access to it.

Literature review
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying mainstream literature on the subject. Research in the warehousing management and control field began to appear since warehousing has become one of the main logistics functions. In economic terms, «warehousing» means performance of administrative and physical functions associated with goods and materials storage (Rouwenhorst et al.,2000). Besides, it would be more accurate to considered warehousing as a system. This is due to the fact that warehousing is not only responsible for stocks, but also ensures the smooth execution of orders in the supply chain, as it is associated with other logistics subsystems. After the system structure has been applied to warehousing, research in this field could identify the variety of factors that affect warehousing efficiency and specifics (Zijm et al,1999).
We need to understand what factors and indicators affect warehouse performance, in order to analyze it. First of all, it should be noted that there are different types of warehouses. We need to distinguish between them, because without understanding of the fundamental differences between warehouses types, we cannot conduct effective analysis. There are many classifications of warehouses. Most of them have been suggested in the 90s in numerous logistic studies of American scholars (Gelders,2003). But in my research, I will use the classification of Dutch scholars, J. van der Berg and W. Zijm (Zijm et al,1999), based on the separation of warehouses functional purpose. This is due to the fact that the company activity defines warehouse appointment. According to the chosen classification, we may distinguish three types of warehouses: Distribution warehouses, Contract warehouses, Production warehouses. A distribution warehouse is a warehouse in which products from different suppliers are collected or assembled for delivery to a number of customers. In the same time a production warehouse is used for the storage of raw materials, semi-finished products and finished products in a production facility. And a contract warehouse represents a facility that performs the warehousing operation on behalf of one or more customers.
There are several indicators that help to analyze company warehouse system efficiency. The first indicator, which allows analyzing the warehouse system, is a measure of mechanization. This factor began to study in the 80s by A. Ashayeri and L.Gelders(Gelders,2003). Their article - "Warehouse design optimization "got the greatest popularity in this field. Measure of mechanization determines working mechanisms at the involvement level and warehouse equipment level. According to the level of mechanization, warehouses are divided into motorized, non-motorized and automatic. Part of the work is delegated to mechanisms on motorized warehouse(motorized warehouse mechanisms).Most often this mechanism is a conveyor. Automatic warehouse are characterized by low human intervention. A striking example of this warehouse type is Amazon company warehouse, where most of the work is done by drones.
The importance of next indicators is approved by specialists and discussed in many articles. Next indices characterize the warehouse operation intensity:
commodity turnover,
cargo flow,
willingness to supply,
delivery errors.
Practically all of the studies, which are connected with the warehousing system analysis, contain a review of represented by above indicators. According to D.Lambert and D.Stock(Lambert,2001), these detectors help to analyze the warehouse operations in the field of the loading and unloading of goods.
The last group of indicators, which characterizes the warehouse operations effectiveness, is «efficient use of space » indices:
utilization ratio of warehouse space,
freight traffic density,
warehouse capacity.
The main purpose of such indicators - provide insight into the current using of warehouse space. On this basis, we can draw conclusions that are necessary for future optimization. Researches in this area are related to minimization of the storage space exploitation costs, required for the goods and cargo placement. Although these indicators are widespread in the scientific literature, they are rarely used in practical storage system researches. Therefore, in present paper, we try to focus on the practical side of the issue.
According to such indicators have been identified warehouse optimization criteria:
Warehouse area,
The number of workers,
Loading and unloading time,
The number of unnecessary operations,
The balance of cash(Ballou,1968).
After investigation, these criteria will form the basis for development of recommendations. But before proceeding to the research tools we need to understand what approach should be used in our study.
There are three the most suitable approaches to the study of the warehousing system, which are described in the economic literature:
The functional approach. It greatly improves the efficiency of logistics systems and subsystems functioning analysis. Such approach uses two main complex concepts: the system functioning process and the law of the system. Process, or in other words, logistics system operation mode shows the changes in its state, which are expressed as a change in any magnitude that characterizes the system. Models and forecasts of logistics systems further development are developed in accordance with the laws of their functioning and their initial state (Gelders,2003).
The systems approach. It is a methodological basis through management of flow processes. This approach is a comprehensive study of the phenomena, situations, or objects as a whole from the system analysis standpoint. It considers any object of research in logistics as an integrated logistics system, even when it consists of separate relatively disparate subsystems. The system approach is not expressed in the form of a specific rigorous methodological concept. It can be described as a certain principles set that allow purposefully orient theoretical studies and practical activities.
The experimental approach. It assumes the necessary research through active intervention in the logistics process and further observation of results. This approach is used in cases of deviation from the logistics systems and subsystems functioning parameters set. Methods and techniques that comply with this approach, helps better understand the essence of a problem, correct the logistics of the program, taking into account the causal relationships and the imposition of differently oriented interests (Levy,1992).
The systems approach, described by D.Lambert and D.Stock (Lambert,2001), is the most appropriate for my research. This is due to the fact that it consider indicators and factors affecting the storage system, outlined above. Moreover, a systematic approach is not necessary to have data on deviations that have occurred in the warehousing system. The company, which carries out the study, will take part in this activity for the first time. 
It means that the possibility of obtaining figures for previous periods is very low. This fact does not allow using an experimental approach.

Methods
The main tools of system approach will be used to solve research tasks.  These tools allow us to identify problem areas and determine the optimization direction. It seems to be reasonable to use the following research methods:
ABC and XYZ analysis.  It will help us to analyze the goods nomenclature in stock and decide how much product reserves we need. In addition, the analysis results will help us to make the initial conclusions on the company financial condition.
Coefficient method allows to analyze the necessary indicators for the application of a systems approach (utilization ratio of warehouse space, freight traffic density and others)
Factor analysis. It consists of comparing the factors required for the analysis. These factors were identified in the theoretical part of the work. After comparing, factors get the value of the share, according to their importance. The findings can be used for drawing up the priority optimization list.
As mentioned earlier, the essence of a systems approach is to consider the interaction of individual components, which are connected by a common purpose. We chose these methods because they can be used to disassemble the system on individual indexes and consider their interaction for further analysis.
Data collection will be carried out through dialogue with staff, review of specialized documents, such as invoice, the list of defective products, production reports, loading and unloading list.

Results Anticipated
Data collection for the calculation and analysis of indicators will be one of the most important stages of the work. The success of this phase will depend on the entire analysis. I suppose that the company's management agreed to provide the basic data, required for the study. Also, it will be interesting to explore how coefficient analysis method interacts with factor analysis. Assuming that certain factors are associated with certain factors can make the hypothesis of the complementarily of these approaches. Verification of the methods and approaches in the realities of the Russian business also has a particular interest. The practical viability of the chosen approach will be determined at the stage of proposals to optimize the current system. If the company will arrange the proposed changes, we can say that the method was well chosen and it suitable for warehousing system analysis.

Conclusion
In conclusion I would like to briefly indicate the main ideas ofthe research. In the current economic conditions any company is seeking ways to cut costs and increase profits. Optimization of enterprise warehousing system can be the key to improve its financial health. The theoretical basis of this work is methods and approaches, presented in the researches of foreign scholars. These techniques will be applied in the practical part of the work, which implies the warehousing system analysis by the parsing of factors and coefficients. 
The main results will be presented as conclusions and recommendations for optimization of considered company. Under favorable circumstances, these findings can be considered and implemented by the company management, thereby confirming the practical significance of the work. It is worth mentioning, that the study considers only a certain enterprise, without considering the logistics industry as a whole.