Introduction
Background. Lean management is the method of production organization which includes optimization of production processes of the company, orientation to customer’s needs, improvement of quality and economy of an annual turnover of the company due to cost reduction and elimination of losses. In the conditions of world financial crisis lean management can increase business competitiveness being the most effective, reliable and low-cost way out of the crisis for enterprises. Methods of lean manufacturing allow to improve  product quality or services, reduce expenses and production cycle time. Nowadays the main objective of each entity is not only to withstand the difficult and unstable conditions, but also to continue its development. For this purpose it is necessary to increase efficiency of the enterprise in all directions of its activity.

Problem Statement. The research aim consists in the creation of quick-reaction (flexible) production systems in the conditions of the unstable and constantly changing customer demand. The object of research is the production system of the company, and the subject is the ways to eliminate losses  places in the production process. For the achievement of the aim the following objectives were set:
examine theoretical base according to the concept of lean management;
construct and analyse the current status of the production system of the company;
reveal losses and bottlenecks in production processes;
find ways to eliminate the revealed losses and bottlenecks;
constitute the program of recommendations for prevention and elimination of losses in the production system.

Professional Significance. The practical importance of this research is that its scientific results can be used in the organization of lean management at the entity. Lean manufacturing is aimed at the increase of efficiency in the functioning of the company, improvement of production quality and competitiveness in general. Moreover, a quick-reaction (flexible) production system can be applied in activities of industrial enterprises to the maximum satisfaction of customer’s needs. Thus, business competitiveness increases.

Delimitations of the Study. We shall concentrate the attention on the production department because a product assumes its material form there. During the conducted research there can be problems which are connected with the lack of certain information which the company considers a corporate secret and has no right to disclose it. Though in the company there is a set of departments our research will extend on production department of the company.

Definitions of Key Terms. In our project we are going to deal with the key concept of lean management. According to Ohno T. (1988) lean management is a management concept of production system organization, aimed at the elimination of all types of losses. Another crucial concept for our research is bottleneck. Goldratt E. M. (1999) stated that bottleneck is the resource that requires the longest time in operations of the supply chain for certain demand. In his work Sweeney B. (2015) gives the definition of quick – reaction (flexible) production system, stating that it is the system which allows to satisfy constantly changing needs of the customer just in time. 

Literature Review
A large body of literature sources on lean management form the basis for the present study. This section will observe the theoretical and empirical research in this field. The presented survey will be based on the extensive study of literature on the subject.
Nowadays, there is a new concept – production with a quick reaction (Quick Response Manufacturing, QRM). This concept, developed by Pr. Rajan S. (Андреев, Лузин, 2015), is aimed at radical reduction of time expenditure at all stages of production cycle and office transactions. However, it is necessary to note that its prerequisites and tools are very similar with the concept of economical production. Moreover, this concept is also directed at the capability to react quickly in the conditions of the accelerated changes of business environment. QRM is successfully implemented in hundreds of the companies of Europe and Russia. However it should be taken into account that the concept of lean management had arisen long before the emergence of strategy of QRM and, in fact, is the 'ancestor' of all subsequent concepts directed on optimization of production systems. 
The origin of system of lean management began with the concept of mass production which was for the first time implemented by Ford in 1913 in automobile production market. He stated that the means put in the stock are losses, which raise prices. In 1913 H. Ford managed to significantly minimize the costs of labour for the assembling of Ford (automobile) as a result of the organization of uninterrupted production line. (Baldwin, 2002)
However, both European and American auto makers faced the same problem, which revealed a significant defect of mass production – acute need of mass reduction along with the reduction of sales volume.
The concept of lean manufacturing was introduced by J. Krafcik (Pascal, 2015). He was one of the research workers involved in the programme International Motor Vehicle Programme in Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The programme was organized by the first-rate auto makers in the USA after the extremely successful entry of Toyota company into the American market. The concept of lean marketing appeared in the 1950s on the basis of Toyota Production System (TPS). 
The beginning of the development of the TPS system was laid after World War II when Japan had to solve the problem of economic and production revival and the entry into the international auto market.  The TPS concept was preceded by mass production, which was initiated by H. Ford (Baldwin, 2002). Mass production was quickly spread around the world. It is interesting to mention, however, that the future creator of TPS concept T. Ohno (1988) concluded that mass production would not be effective in Japan after his visit to Ford factory.
For the successful work of Toyota company it was necessary to develop production technology to provide the home market with the product that would satisfy the customers’ needs. T. Ohno (1988) was inspired by the uninterrupted production lines created by H. Ford. However he saw the negative side of this technology – the uninterrupted work of the equipment led to overproduction. The parts which were ready for the assembly process stayed unused at the company warehouses.  This fact led T. Ohno to the understanding that such assembly lines must be used for a more economical production in small lots. Therefore it was necessary to optimize the production system of Toyota company. 
Later T. Ohno wrote several books on the concept of lean production and published them in the USA. One of the most famous books is Toyota Production System (1988). T. Ohno, the creator of Toyota production system and the author of the lean production concept, determined seven kinds of losses:
transport (moving products that are not actually required to perform the processing);
inventory (all components, work in process, and finished product not being processed);
motion (people or equipment moving or walking more than is required to perform the processing);
waiting (waiting for the next production step, interruptions of production during shift change);
overproduction (production ahead of demand);
processing (resulting from poor tool or product design creating activity);
defects (the effort involved in inspecting for and fixing defects). 
Lean production gained wide fame after its entry into the auto market of the USA, where the company occupied the greater part of market share, competing with the greatest American auto makers. These data were received by the researchers of the International Motor Vehicle Program, coordinated by J.Womack, D.Jones (1990). It took them five years to study the Toyota production system and to research the international concepts of auto making.
The results of their research were published in the following books:  The Machine That Changed the World: The Story of Lean Production (1990). The authors of the study determined that the lean production is the system which is capable of the reduction of company total costs and acceleration of the reaction to oscillation in consumers’ demand. Later J.Womack and D.Jones managed to reveal the main principles of the lean production, which allow to determine the weak points of production. 
J.Liker, who studied the production experience of Toyota company along with J.Womack and D.Jones, determined the eighth kind of losses in his book Dao Toyota (2004):
unrealized creative potential of staff members.
This kind of losses is connected with the loss of time, ideas, and skills on the part of staff due to the employers' inattentive attitude. 
Apart from the abovementioned kind of loss, DrEliyahu M. Goldratt (1999) developed his Theory of Constraints (TOC). This theory is a popular concept of management, which describes in detail the process of the reorganization of production system. DrEliyahu M. Goldratt (1999) stated that in order to attain their goals (to gain profit) the companies should effectively manage the “bottleneck”, that is obvious and hidden problems which interfere with the functioning and development of the company. Moreover, Dr Eliyahu M. Goldratt (1999) carried out research at the market of metallurgical production. He determined that there existed significant costs in this sphere, which occur due to overproduction. 
The overview of literature allows to consider the concept of lean management. Moreover, the sources allow to reveal the existing types of losses in production which need to be eliminated to build the extending production system. Thus, it may be concluded that lean management is a concept, which may optimize the production logistics of an enterprise, and also build a quick-reaction (flexible) production system in the conditions of unstable demand, thus reducing total costs of the company. Many industrial enterprises in Russia were among the researched companies worldwide. DrEliyahu M. Goldratt (1999) claimed that in order to change productivity of the companies it is necessary to build the pull production system which is possible thanks to elimination of losses when using all necessary tools. 
Nowadays many Russian enterprises, including «KAMAZ», «Ural», «Kamkabel» actively implement the principles of lean manufacturing. It is worth paying attention to the fact that data of the company optimizes a production system, using all lean management tools. Thus, it allows them to reduce inventories of incomplete production time and production cycle time as much as possible. (Фейгенсон, Мацкевич, Липецкая, Княгинин, 2012)

Methodology
In this part of the project we will explain, what methods will be used when carrying out research, paying special attention to the analysis of the current status of a production system of the enterprise. First, it is necessary to explain that the use of the card of value stream mapping (VSM) is an important stage in the description of the existing production process. In the framework of lean management there has been distinguished a number of methods, which help to reduce the production cycle and optimize the production system in general. They are:
total productive maintenance (TPM) - General care of the equipment. This tool is aimed at the improvement of maintenance system which will in turn increase the operability of the equipment (Wilson, 2015);
sort, set, shine, standardize and sustain (5S). The 5S system allows to increase considerably the efficiency and controllability of an operational zone, improve corporate culture, raise labor productivity and save time (Womack, Jones, 1990); 
single-minute exchange of die (SMED) - readjustment of the equipment less than in 10 minutes. This tool will allow to reduce expenses and losses in case of readjustment and setup of the equipment (Dailey, 2003); 
just in time (JIT) - approach to production management on the basis of the consumer demand. This tool allows to build the pull production system which is capable of reducing inventories of incomplete production between working shops (Ohno, 1988);
specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-specific (SMART). The set objective in accordance with characteristics of SMART allows to increase efficiency of employees’ activity for its achievement, which allows to reduce time for the accomplishment of unnecessary work (Pascal, 2015);
kanban is a method based on the system of the signals showing the demand for components or finished goods. The working Kanban system allows to considerably reduce the surplus of warehouse stocks. (Feld, 2000)
These methods will allow to reduce production cycle in the company and improve qualitative indexes. In order to achieve the best effect in the implementation of lean management the company needs to use a complex of lean manufacturing tools on all the stags of production cycle.

Results anticipated
This part of the project is built according to the research objectives formulated in chapter 1 and represents results, which will be received with the help of the above-mentioned methods. Our first objective was the study of a large body of literature sources on lean management. The extensive study helped us understand, that in order to reveal and eliminate losses it is necessary to implement a complex of lean management instruments, which help to reduce total costs of the company.
Our next objective is to analyse the VSM of the enterprise under study. The result of this analysis will help to determine the weak points in the production system. Another objective is to analyse weak points and losses in the production system, which limit the performance or handling capacity of the system to several components or resources. The result of the analysis will promote the understanding of the corrections and changes which should be done. The following objective is to consider the potential of the abovementioned methods for further elimination of the determined losses and weak points of the production system with the help of lean management tools. The fulfillment of these objectives will promote the creation of the quick-reaction (flexible) production system in the conditions of unstable demand. This system will in turn reduce the prime cost of production items and minimize the total costs. The final objective is the creation of the program of recommendations for the prevention and elimination of losses in a production system.

Conclusion
So, during the implementation of lean management, the majority of companies seek to manage with a separately taken instrument of lean management, expecting that it will eliminate the revealed losses. However it should be noted that this concept is a complete system, which presupposes a complex use of all lean management tools for identification and elimination of bottlenecks. 
In our work we studied numerous sources on lean management in order to determine the key principles of production optimization. Further the current production system will be considered. For this purpose VSM will be created. As a result of the analysis of the current production we will focus our attention on bottlenecks. Having obtained the relevant data, a complex approach (based on the principles and tools of lean production) to identification and elimination of the losses in production department will be used. Thus, we will try to reach the reduction of the general expenses and increase the productivity of the company. 
Generalizing the received results of the conducted research, we will try to develop the program of actions for elimination of bottlenecks for the purpose of creation of quick-reaction (flexible) production system in which stocks of incomplete production will be minimum, and the speed of implementation of orders for consumers will be higher.


