Introduction
Background of the study. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of corporate social responsibility (CSR) signifies the expanded role of responsibility for society and the environment by companies. This issue is currently an active area of research, and the idea of CSR has become a worldwide problem. While this approach to responsibility of the companies seems to gain popularity, there is a gap in our theoretical understanding of CSR. No matter how many renowned scholars investigated the nature of CSR, it is hardly possible to consider their theories as an appropriate framework to all companies and industries in the world. This actual aspect of the problem is within the scope of my research. 

Problem Statement. For the following reasons spelled out more fully in the delimitations of the study I will be severely limited in the amount of information to be collected. It is not my purpose to explore in any depth the problem of CSR. I will make a systematic effort touching upon the issues concerning CSR in Russian oil and gas industry. There is a number of strong constraints attributed to CSR. The general purpose is to develop criteria for the definition and evaluation of CSR in Russian oil and gas industry. Some scholars claim this newly formed but previously existing trend of using of CSR in companies should have a dominating status in social relations of any firm. In this case the emphasis will be placed not so much on the development of new classification of CSR methods, but rather on deepening and improving the existing methods in oil and gas industry.

Professional Significance. The research study will be of primary significance to all Russian oil and gas companies. Top managers of these companies may use the findings to better understand the reporting in the terms of CSR. It will be helpful to work through the fundamental revolutionary consequences of all new innovations in this field. The problem of CSR is a top priority for all those who are engaged in corporate governance. At more general level this problem is considered as essential for understanding and analyzing actions of companies, which may or may not lead to social effects. CSR trend became currently significant in all modern theories and industries.

Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be limited by the selection of involved companies due to oil and gas industry. Generalizability, the extent to which the results can be applied to other companies, will be limited to large Russian corporations and specifics of each industry.
The further limitations will be provided by the method of data collection. The usage of secondary data, which will generally include reports of companies, will constrict the bounds of the research. 
Limitations connected with the applications of the research can arise. The worst case scenario is that the research result will not have a practical application and it will not be useful for any company in oil and gas industry. If there are negative results, I will continue to work on this research.

Literature Review
The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature on the corporate social responsibility (CSR). This section will observe theoretical studies in this field.  The theoretical review starts off with the explanation of key concepts of CSR in the context of different approaches.  According to Bowen and Chase, the debate on corporate social responsibility (CSR) issues is commonly dated back to the 1950s. And since this time till our time many various theories were created. Since there is a great heterogeneity of theories and approaches, the criterion for selection is to consider the role that theorists confer to the firm. Following this idea, three groups of theories have been discerned.
The first group of theories consists of utilitarian theories. In utilitarian theories the corporation is defined as a part of the economic system.  The behavior of the corporation is rather mechanical, it acquires its meaning only if the function is defined. The term utilitarian refers mainly to the traditional economic approach to the firm – mainly seen in the first part of the last century and the years immediately following the Second World War. Within this framework, the firm’s behavior is commonly studied as a profit maximizing function, no matter what happens inside the firm. This approach is accepted by both the Liberals (or neo-classicists) and the Keynesians (Velo 2003). This group of utilitarian theories is divided into two main sub-categories: one including scholars involved in studying the social revenues and costs of the firm, and the other for functionalists.  The first sub-category is the theory of social costs. Originally problems of social costs arise in the literature with regard to the study of external economies, as it appeared in Marshall’s (1890, 221ff.) contribution. He was the first economist who took variables of social belonging directly to the firm. According to Marshall (1890), from external to social there is a short logical passage "social forces cooperate with economic: there are often strong friendships between employers and employed: but neither side likes to feel that in case of any disagreeable incident happening between them, they must go on rubbish against one another" (p. 226). Then Pigou in 1920 starts out from Marshall’s intuitions in order to introduce the problem of the firm’s social costs, or what we might call the real theoretical basis of social responsibility. Another sub-group is the functionalists. Functionalists see the firm as a part of the economic system whose goal derives from its definite function in society: that of making profits. Some authors call the theories belonging to this group integralist, narrowed view or productivist. First, Milton Friedman’s contribution on social responsibility (Friedman 1962, 1970) can certainly be considered as integralist. While the authors cited above seem to be quasi-foundational, Friedman refers directly to social responsibility as something belonging to the ongoing debate. He gives a narrow meaning to social responsibility, seeing it as the same as a form of philanthropy, i.e. to donate money to the poor, non-profit organizations, churches, and so on.
The second group of theories is from inside the firm: the managerial group. Theories included in the managerial group are characterized by the stress scholars place on corporate management. The main difference between the utilitarian and the managerial view consists of the fact that the latter approaches start considering social responsibility from inside the firm. Managerial theories have been divided into three sub-groups: 1) CSP models, 2) theories on social accountability, auditing and reporting, and 3) social issues in international business. Scientists in studies on corporate social performance (CSP) highlighted that social responsibility is, to some extent, something that can be integrated, measured and controlled in the economic performance. Few scholars from this sub-group underlined connections of CSP to the financial performance of the corporation. In the second sub-group concepts and general aims of theories connected to corporate social accounting, auditing and reporting (SAAR) are strictly related to social performance contributions. However, they are divided from CSP theories, as scholars measure social performance through accounting procedures or reporting practices. The last sub-group of the managerial group provides interesting concepts for a theory of social responsibility in the international context that has not been defined as an actual theory yet. One of the most important contributions is that of De George (2000). He defines a series of guidelines that the enterprise should follow in order to behave morally in foreign contexts. The guidelines have a normative character, as they are anchored in general ethical-philosophical principles.
The third approach is considered as relational theories. Scholars belonging to this group put relationships at the heart of the analysis. The group of relational theories is divided into four sub-groups of theories: 1) business and society; 2) stakeholder approach; 3) corporate citizenship; and 4) theory of social contract. In some cases, these groups may belong to one of the fields of studies previously cited.  The sub-group of studies on business and society contains a huge number of scholars. Scholars try to understand the role that organizations, mainly corporations, play in society. The most outstanding representatives from this subgroup are Davis and Blomstrom (1966). Davis and Blomstrom connect social responsibility to the quantity of power the organization possesses. They build-up the power-responsibility equation relating to the influence that corporate managers and owners hold over society (called social power) [1]. In the second sub-group of the stakeholder approach a model for studying relationships is considered. Some scholars found that the stakeholder can improve the doctrine of CSR. The result of this approach should be that social responsibility be abandoned in favor of the correct implementation of the stakeholder approach. Freeman and Liedtka affirm that CSR lacks dynamism and any connection with the practice of corporate management. A new theory is needed. It is described by three propositions: 1) the stakeholder proposition considers the firm as an interconnected web of different interests; 2) for the caring proposition individuals behave altruistically; 3) the pragmatic proposition describes the enterprise as a means for expressing creativity and personality. The main idea in the third sub-group of corporate citizenship is that corporations can take its rightful place in society, next to other “citizens”, with whom the corporation forms a community. A corporation that wants to become a good citizen needs to involve itself in a process of continuing successful relationships with society. 
Being a good global citizen in a relational context means treating well the entire range of constituencies – stakeholders – who have invested their capital in the business. Citizenship thus has significantly more impact and importance for corporate operations than the so-called discretionary responsibilities implied in typical definitions of corporate social responsibility. (Waddock and Smith 2000, 49)
The last sub-group of the managerial group is the social contract theory. The basic idea is that the society, corporations and the other economic organizations are supposed to share implicit, informal relations in order to define a moral community. These relations are thought of as limits that allow us to define every aspect of implicit morality. In order to analyze these elements Donaldson and Dunfee create a framework to underline moral constraints in corporate-society relations. This is the origin of the Integrative Social Contracts Theory (ISCT). 
The three groups (utilitarian, managerial, and relational) constitute a general framework for the classification of theories. The concepts located in sub-groups (social costs, stakeholder approach, and so on) are examples of the main ideas developed within the field of socially responsible thought. Hence, other sub-groups might be considered in a wider analysis. It is possible to note such sub-groups as social issues management which consists in selecting and analyzing significant issues relating to ethical concerns regarding the firm and society; the religious influence in moral and social life; social integration with environmental and economic issues.

Methodology
This part of the proposal gives special emphasis to the analysis of data. Here it is necessary to describe the data to be analyzed, and the methods to be used in carrying out the study. There are various approaches tot analyzing the subject of corporate social responsibility. The research methodology is based on a systematic approach to the study of corporate social responsibility at the level of corporations. The study is intended to consider reports of corporations of oil and gas branch.
The Russia National Register and Library of corporate non-financial reports will form the base of data to be used. This data appears to be appropriate for the study due to the following:
it contains a distribution of reports on branch accessory of the companies;
it allows to monitor the dynamics of the corporate reports over the years;
it covers all Russian regions.
The data will be analyzed by means of special reporting standards: GRI, ISO14000, ISO26000, OHSAS18001, AA1000, SA8000. These standards are independent which help the enterprises, to the governments and other organizations to understand and communicate their influences on such questions as climate change, human rights and corruption.
A statistical application SPSS will be applied in the research. It enables to make all necessary procedures for this study:
to create a data file about CSR actions of oil and gas corporations from 2000 to 2014;
to analyze and measure corporate actions of a social orientation;
to compare actions of the companies in oil and gas brand;
to offer a set of optimum operations for this branch.
The use of SPSS will simplify the analysis if the facts in corporate reports are similar in structure and will help to investigate functional and formal explanation of CSR in corporations. This is the reason why I intend to use this method.

Results Anticipated
The following part of the proposal reports on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. As stated before, the study reported here will examine in detail the results obtained in a consequence of the analysis of annual corporate non-financial reports in the oil and gas industry. This part of the proposal is developed in terms of the specific research questions posed in the Introduction. It first will report the received and processed information from corporate reports; it then will examine the analysis of CSR activities of each company; and finally it will offer a set of optimum operations in the sphere of CSR actions for the oil and gas industry. 
The presentation of the results will use an appropriate pattern. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. Each corporation will have a table with carried out CSR activities. All activities will be evaluated using specific reporting standards. Also there will be a big summarizing table that compares all companies in the oil and gas industry, and their actions in the field of CSR. The relations between CSR activities will be demonstrated using diagrams. Finally, the special recommendatory set of activities for the whole industry will be offered in the narrative text.

Conclusion
In conclusion it is reasonable to outline that CSR today is an essential part of any big company. The baseline results of the present research will illustrate an important generalization of actions in the field of CSR in oil and gas industry in Russia. The results obtained will provide a guideline for all companies in oil and gas industry for CSR reporting. I believe that the approach employed seems to open up a whole range of new opportunities. To sum up it is possible to advance our understanding and using of CSR through the development of guides for each particular industry. Improving existing methods of CSR reporting will lead to more responsible companies which behave ethically and contribute to economic development while improving the quality of life of the workforce and their families as well as the local community and society at large. It will contribute to sustainable business success. To sum up I can state that the project will be an attempt to stimulate research into the field of CSR and will help the companies of oil and gas industry to report more effective.