The theory of customer preferences has developed over the last few decades. The present paper describes customer preferences in bars and pubs market. The investigation looks into this phenomenon to see how it can influence the bar brand building. The results of analyzing consumer preferences at bars and pups market based on brand-mapping will be used to build a strong bar brand in Perm city. 
Firstly, I'll identify a problem within the context of bars and pups branding in Russia and formulate main tasks to solve. Then, some theoretical aspects of bar clients' preferences will be considered. In the final part of the work there will be presented the research methods and the hypothetical results. 

Background of the study. Year by year the catering industry gradual increase in Russia is observed. It has become one of the most intensively developing industries in native economic. High competitive intensity in this market forces firms to make efforts for identifying their products in consumers' mind. Associations and experiences constructing in customers' minds can be called company's brand development. Quite often consumers are dissatisfied with a product or service. It can be caused by customer preferences ignorance or unwillingness of carrying out market research. Both of these aspects lead to consumer demand loss. Consequently, any producer or seller should be oriented on buyer's preferences, wills and choice.
Gradually, young Russian business is developing the main market economic laws: potency and profitability of a company depend directly on the quality of interaction with consumers. Hence, Russian companies in catering industry are trying to analyze consumer preferences before starting product or service brand development. For managers in this industry there is a necessity to determine the direction to move on and to choose the tools for buyers' attraction and satisfaction. (Ivashkova, 2010) That is why, one of the main goals of the company is to identify preferences of its target audience to develop a new brand.
Bars and pubs market is now the most fast-growing market in Russia which is connected with state prohibition against sales of alcohol after 11 p.m. According to my own the research in Perm city there are over 100 bars and pubs, but almost several of them have permanent audience and recognizable brand. (Анализ состояния конкуренции, 2015) So, it is extremely important to investigate the target audience's preferences and identify the brand position in their mind while developing a new bar brand.
	
Problem statement. At present the concept of customer preferences is widely used in conducting applied marketing research. So, the general purpose of the proposal is to develop a strong brand of a bar relying on customer preferences within the bars and pubs market. However, studies on buyers' preferences and behavior within the bars and pubs market are virtually unknown today as they have not received powerful support in the existing literature. That is why the study was divided into several research tasks:
Considering theoretical aspects of consumer preferences and behavior in catering market;
Analyzing the situation in the bars and pubs market in Perm city;
Studying customer behavior and preferences within the bars and pubs market in Perm city;
Developing a brand of a bar based on the research. 

Professional significance. The research study has both theoretical and practical significance for present days. The idea of developing brand equity based on consumer behavior is not new. However,  it seems useful to investigate consumers and their behavior in terms of specific market. Consequently, I suppose that the research will deepen theoretical aspects of branding in particular market based on what customers choose and prefer.
Moreover, it could be of practical significance to modern interpreters and managers, who can apply described concepts on new bar or pub brand development.  

Delimitations of the study. The general goal of this project is to develop a bar brand on the basis of consumer preferences. However, I am not going to explore in any depth the problem of market research conducting for creating a brand. Instead, the influence of customer preferences on brand building in bars and pubs market will be considered in the proposal. 

Definition of key terms. The subject of the research is customer preferences that can be considered from both economic and psychological points of view. Economically, it is a way of cost allocation while purchasing goods on the free market. Nevertheless, in terms of psychology, customer preferences could be understood as buyers' personal attitude to the product and it's attributes. (Posypanova, 2012) Exactly this psychological approach will be considered in the study. 
Another key term that should be defined is brand. The first meaning of the term brand is connected with product differentiation among the competitors' similar products. However, it is also necessary to regard brand as a set of product characteristics which evoke particular emotions and associations in customers' mind. (Kotler, 2003, p.24)

Literature review  
During last twenty years consumer preferences were carefully explored by American marketing experts as Alan R. Andreasen or Lori Simon-Rusinowitz, sociologists and economists, Andrew Lyon, for example. However, these studies tended to be expository and described the characteristics of consumer preferences rather superficially. Also, the question of this subject was considered by some foreign psychologists, but only few of them had thorough theoretical background. Generally, all studies in the last couple of decades neither reveal the whole nature of customer preferences, nor have fully described theory. (Posypanova, 2012) Moreover, the theory of consumer influence on brand development were formulated very poorly.  Past studies describe only 2 steps of creating brand: choosing brand identities and developing marketing programs, overlooking marketing research. Also, 3 decades ago researches only mention "brand-specific effect" that explains the role of consumers’ overall preference in brand creating  that could not be justified by its objectively measured attributes. (Shobeiri, 2015)
Nevertheless, recent investigations of consumer preferences view the studying of this phenomenon as one of leading organizational goals. Firstly, it is important to satisfy customer interests, and only then to gain profit. These aspects are closely connected with each other, so there is a necessity of customer feedback, the task of what is image creating and correcting based on consumer wishes and preferences. After uncovering customer preferences, providers can offer them exactly what they want, sometimes even before the customers realize their desire for that particular product or service. As a result, producers can expect a high level of customer loyalty. (Kwiseok Kwon, Jinhyung Cho and , 2009) Also, it should be noted that preferences are always connected with consumer's principal attitudes, specialties of personality, motives and ambitions. Thus, customer preferences directly influence the decision-making process about products, services and brands. (Komissarova, 2004)
There were several studies of consumer preferences in catering market, particularly in bars market, and their influence on brand development in the past few years. In one of the studies in catering industry the 3 target segments of customers were distinguished: students, business people and families. Since, the most appropriate audience for bars and pubs is young people, particularly including students, it is quite rational to consider preferences of the "students" segment within the bars and pubs market. So, according to the research, the primary preferences of consumers based on 7P marketing mix were described. (Posypanova, 2012) The correlation between marketing mix components and consumer preferences are presented in Table 1.
According to another investigation of bars, pubs and beer restaurants in 2009, the average bill cost in restaurants drops while the popularity of inexpensive public catering grows. Thus, both investors and customers pay attention to bars and pubs industry. The researchers determined several criteria that define consumers' preference about bar brand, these are price, bar location and atmosphere. So, bars of low and average price range are oriented on students and the youth, who also prefer specific atmosphere and wide range of dishes and drinks. (Shefina, 2011) As the company AMIKO calculated, the most successful concept of a bar that customers prefer is inexpensive establishment with European dishes in a menu. Furthermore, periodic monitoring of bar clients' preferences and wishes can influence adjusting and improving bar's environment, atmosphere and even rebranding. (Samoilova, 2009)
The researches Rollo A.S. and Grayson Lisa S. McNeill (2009) note that bars that differ from public catering. They consider bars as social environments outside of the consumption of alcohol. Bars differ from  retail settings such as restaurants, cafes and other food-service outlets, whose general function is to provide catering services. Also, bars are not similar to other entertainment environments such as movie theatres and concert halls, that may be frequented for social reasons. In other words, in a bar setting there is no necessity to choose either to have a meal and some drinks or to have entertainment with friends. It is also noticed that customers are looking for the same things in bars and pubs as its' managers, specifically to feel comfortable in the environment, make a good relationship between them and staff and to create excitement. Consequently, one of the main preferences while choosing a bar or a pub to meet with friends and have fun is specific bar's atmosphere. Thus, bar brand development in many cases can be based on creating unique atmosphere as most bars tend to sell a similar range of products. Through careful planning of ambient, design and different social elements bar managers have the ability both to create a special atmosphere that can generates visitors' moods and emotions to satisfy their preferences and to make powerful bar brand differentiation. 
That is all about the theoretical bases of the consumer preferences in bars and pubs market, thus I can move to the next part of the research study.

Methodology
This section explains the methods and procedures used in carrying out the study. The research methodology is directly correlated with the tasks of the work. So, the first practical task that was formulated is analyzing the situation in the bars and pubs market in Perm city. The primary method of study at this stage will be analyzing existing data on bars and pubs market in Perm city and its' supply. Secondly, the studying of consumer preferences requires the brand-mapping method that allows to estimate brand perception relatively to competitors, the structure of preferences emergence and to reveal the brands dynamics. The brand-mapping technology is based on using of subjective semantic method. (Brand-mapping, 2010) It will include interviews with potential customers, factor analysis and the brand perception map creating. 

Results anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The results will be based on the data obtained in 3 stages of the research. The Perm bars and pubs market review and analyzing will allow to study market supply and identify free niches where a new bar can operate. Owing to these results there will be the determination of the target audience and its preferences about Perm bars and pubs offering and the whole atmosphere of such establishments. At this stage there will be composed a brand perception map, based on which the bar brand will be build. Illustration of this map will help to demonstrate a bar brand form relatively to other bar brands in Perm. The general result of the study will be the developing of a bar brand that should be unique and quite new for consumers.

Conclusion 
In conclusion I would like to emphasize briefly the main ideas of the research. It follows from what has been discussed that analyzing of consumer preferences is one of the primary organizational goals when building a brand. This project has discussed several studies of what customers prefer when choosing a bar or a pub. However, the research problem concerns the lack of investigations of consumer preferences at bars and pups market. Consequently, the future study aims to explore the preferences of bars' clients in order to build a strong bar brand.
