Introduction
Background. Recently, the role of Human Research Management (HRM) has been increasing. We are also witnessing a growing understanding of the importance of how an organization as a whole can function efficiently. The HR Department previously fulfilled general administrative and accounting functions. It was quite insignificant, had limited scope of influence and therefore low-skilled personnel. However, at present it has moved to a new strategic level, which requires human resources managers (HR managers) with a certain set of necessary competences. The specialists who can boast the expert level have acquired their skills and competences over the course of many years of work, therefore sometimes they do not realize their presence, while inexperienced managers and managers-to-be need a certain list.

Problem Statement. The question considered is widely investigated and discussed by various scholars, so there are many different models of competences. Despite this, future HR managers do not possess the required skills, because they do not know how and where to obtain them. Thus, the research question is to work out the model of the key competences for the HR manager and to give recommendations for their acquisition at the beginning of the career. To achieve this goal, I shall study the shortcomings and the problems existing at each level of the HRM structure and review the existing theoretical and practical models of competence of an HR manager. Moreover, it is important to conduct in-depth interviews, questioning and analyze the results.

Professional Significance. The research will be of primary significance to undergraduate and graduate students, employers and universities. HR students and graduates may use the findings to better understand the demands posed by their future employers and the competences essential to begin a career, as well as how to obtain them or to improve. The employers, through using the proposed model of competences, will be able to select the best potential staff members. The universities that provide education in this area can improve the training program for future HR managers by further focusing it on the acquisition of necessary competences. In addition, it will affect the importance of HRM generally, because the application of the results will gradually enhance the competence level of HR departments.

Delimitation of the Study. There is a variety of strong restriction attributed to my study findings. Firstly, I shall not address the competences of an HR manager for companies with different cycles of production, but rather shall take a broad view of all organizations regardless of their peculiarities. 
A further limitation arises from the method of data collection. I expect that only top HR managers who work for Russian and international companies will participate in the interviews. 
Finally, there is a limitation that regards the application of the results of the research. Only the companies where HR department is viewed as a strategic division can adopt and apply the proposed model of competences. At a lower level, the results will be meaningless.

Definition of the key terms. “Competence is a cluster of related abilities, commitments, knowledge, and skills that enable a person to act effectively in a job. Competence indicates sufficiency of knowledge and skills that enable someone to act in a wide variety of situations, it can occur at any stage of his or her career”. (Businessdictionary.com)

Literature Review
For many years, HR departments mainly performed administrative and recording functions and had limited power. The human resources management activity was separated from the other departments and removed from identifying strategic objectives. Old HR departments were characterized by low qualification of the personnel, lack of specialists on labor relations, labor law, personnel training, etc. The possibility to manage, or work for, an HR department was mainly determined by the experience of social work, interpersonal skills, but not professional training or a degree in management.
A study by the National Training Foundation attempted to investigate the degree to which Russian HR departments meet modern requirements. Today, these departments are mainly involved in record keeping: taking care of personnel files, recording personnel’s internal mobility, headhunting and training. The vast majority of companies under study deemed developing an HR strategy a futile endeavor. Moreover, not all the companies I worked with even included an HR division. Small and medium-size enterprises had the CEO of the company in charge of HR. It is only natural that given their load of other important financial and production issues, little to no attention is paid to HR work.
The complication and expansion of HR management poses new requirements for the model of professional, social and personal competences of HR managers. Today, along with the traditional professional roles, an HR specialist is to become a strategic partner of the top and line management of the company, an agent of change that forms a culture wherein the company’s capacity to change may develop, a defender of the employees, who helps and protects the interests of the staff while increasing their level of engagement and corporate loyalty.
Some of the reasons for insufficient attention of Russian HR departments to the modern HR management practices include:the management’s lack of understanding of the importance of HR management in modern companies; insufficient knowledge of modern concepts of HR management and contemporary personnel-technologies; low professional skills of HR staff.
To address the issues of HR management, the market of today needs not just an administrative HR-lady, but managers capable of meeting challenges of labor relations management, social development, corporate training, incentivizing innovation and entrepreneurial activity — along with their traditional functions. A manager working with human resources must be, first, an organizer of a working group by means of creating the necessary organizational, social and economic conditions; second, a psychologist and a sociologist at the same time to take into account individual capabilities and peculiarities of each worker and create a favorable atmosphere for success; third, an economist who is able to analyze, forecast and take into account the costs and desired results in their decision making process.
The real world practice never ceases to pose new tasks for corporate management that are linked with forming, utilizing and developing organizations’ labor and creative potential. For example, in a new role of a recruiter a manager headhunts, selects and hires desired workers; while in a role of a conflict mediator she takes an active stand in resolving conflicts and labor disputes within the organization. An innovation manager is an engine behind innovation, an idea generator in the sphere of labor; while in a role of a consultant or a mentor the manager explains the objectives, goals and ways of achieving them, gives tips, recommendations and proposes a line of action. In a role of a researcher, the manager must realize one of the most important functions of modern HR management: forecasting and planning the need for human resources, as well as analyzing the consequences of the decisions that are being made.
An important role in modern organizations is the role of a coach, a highly qualified specialist proficient at cutting-edge personnel training methods.
Thus, over the course of her work, an HR manager faces various situations that demand various, ever changing roles. Yet these roles are interlinked and dynamic: each of them is in constant flux and development, their boundaries always blending. The performance of a specific role means that within its scope a manager must be able to combine and optimally organize very diversified nature of activity aimed at achieving the set goals and the desired results.
In his book, Dave Ulrich (2012) discusses the development of the world HR management and proposes a somewhat different approach to viewing the roles and competences of an HR manager. He begins by stating that HRM has experienced three general waves and is now going through the 4th one. Phase one presumes excellent administrative work; phase two means applying HR practices to the area of compensation and remuneration, training, communication, etc; phase three is focused on the interconnection of individual and integrated HR practices for success in business through strategic HR; phase four involves applying best HR practices capable of responding to the external market conditions, so-called HR from the outside in. The author claims that the future development shall only happen if the performance within the first three waves is improved. To this end, managers should possess 6 specific competences pinpointed in a study conducted among a sample of 20,000 HR professionals around the world.
Credible activist is HR manager who has effective interpersonal skills which help to establish the relations with key stakeholders that contributes to business results
Strategic positioned. High-performing HR professionals who understand the global tendencies (social, economic, political etc.) and take them into account, understanding structure and logic of own industries, by drawing up strategy business.
Capability builder is an effective HR professional is capable to create an effective and strong organization thus  it reflects the deeper values of the employees by means of the organizing abilities, that is to construct best corporate culture.
Change champion. Effective HR professionals who not only consider that changes are sustainable competitive advantage, but also develop their organisations’ capacity for change.
Human resource innovator and integrator. A major skill of HR manager is ability to innovate and integrate HR practices around a main business issue i.e. to make the HR whole more effective.
Technology proponent is HR manager who it is able to use information systems to obtain long-term results. 
Laura Portolese Dias (2012) with her book Human Relations highlights several key factors of successful HR managers. Firstly, it is multitasking, that is, the manager should not only execute several things at the same time, but besides she has to switch from one task to another, that means to have good time-management skills
Further, communication skills which help HR manager to employ, adapt, estimate, develop the personnel, that is she has to have ability to work with good and bad news, and correctly to provide information to employees.
A strategic mind-set is also key competence to HR managers. Because the person with a strategic mind-set looks to the future, and can predict the main trends of development and factors that could affect the business environment. Too often, HR managers are focused on their own area and don not consider HRM in a business system.
Moreover, critical skills, which deal with the ethical side of the work, are important. In other words, HR manager constantly agrees about salary, union contracts and works with conflict situations, thus the obtained information is often confidential. Therefore, the manager not only itself has to adhere to ethical standards, but also has to provide their observance in the organization in general.
As a result, for permission of the existing problems which exists in HRM, it is necessary not only improvement of basic competences which are carried out by managers, having certain roles, but also focus on the acquisition of the new, integrated skills which will help HRM to move to a new level.

Methods
The empirical research determines the methods to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of the data collected. There are different methods for analyzing competences of an HR manager. Firstly, as mentioned above, the analysis of secondary data will be applied, i.e. I shall study the existing body of scientific work, in particular the papers that investigate the key competences of an HR manager. This approach helps to investigate, define and classify the basic list of skills, which can be expanded.
Then, in-depth interview with highly skilled HR managers are designed to yield a new set of additional competences important in their work. Furthermore, a comparison with the managers new to their profession will likely identify the key problems they face.  The in-depth interviews will include a number of questions about situations when the HR manager discovered a lack of knowledge or skills and how they were able to obtain them later. For the managers at the start of their career, the questions will deal with the employers’ requirements.
Finally, questioning seems a more appropriate method in order to receive more exact information , to process large number of data and to systematize the obtained data.

Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods described. There is a possibility that the interviews with the less experienced managers will reveal gaps in the education they have received, which entails a lack of certain competences and skills. Further, it is reasonable to anticipate that the analysis of scientific works will help pinpoint problems in each part of the HRM structure. Consequently, it will help to develop a basic set of competences that can be considered alongside the existing solutions. In addition, the interviews with the acting managers will further enrich the model with specific areas of knowledge and instructions for their acquisition. Finally, based on the obtained data, I shall create a classification of competences, which is useful to a beginning manager. Yet, it will not be a skeletal list of skills, but a system fleshed out with recommendations and specific strategies as to how each skill can be mastered. In other words, I seek to develop a complete blueprint of how an HR manager can gain necessary competences to become a highly skilled professional.

Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the research. The problem of the study is that there is a set of competences for work in the sphere of HR, but potential HR managers are not informed about the demanded skills and best practices focused on result. The project is devoted to the exploration of the basic issues within HRM and the critical competences of HR manager. The punch line of the study bases mainly on the necessity of studying the new competences HR managers, corresponding to development of HRM.