Introduction
Background.
The deficiency of qualified personnel in various sectors of the economy became a vital issue at the beginning of the XX century. The International Study Talent Edge 2020 (Talent Edge 2020…, 2010) showed that highly qualified staff is one of the key organizational resources in the judgment of top-managers of the large companies operating in different markets worldwide. They also make a prediction that the next decade leading trend will reflect in further significant or moderate deficit of skilled labor force. 
As follows from the organization Grant Thornton International study (The Grant Thornton…, 2011), the Russian business is also familiar with the problem of staff deficiency. According to the answers of Russian CEOs, in the post-crisis period the deficit of skilled labor force has become a major obstacle to business development.
It is commonly accepted that the labor market has evolved from a “market of the employer” into the “market of the candidate”. This fact can be explained by several reasons. Firstly, this is due to the demographic situation and the lack of qualified specialists in the economy. The competition for qualified staff increases from year to year, this, in turn, forces management to thoroughly analyze and evaluate both internal and external labor force markets. 
The company's success depends largely on its human resources management. Because of that, employers start using employer branding methods in order to attract more qualified and skilled labor force.

Problem Statement.
The main aim of the research is to conduct theoretical and practical analysis of the employer branding methods. In order to achieve this aim, several objectives have been identified: to analyze theoretical background in the field of the formation of employer branding and management; to explore the best practices on the Employer Brand formation; to define key indicators for Employer Brand assessment; to audit the Employer Brand of Ltd. “Alendvic” and identify its problems; to develop improvement plan for the company’s Employer Brand.

Delimitations of the Study.
The main delimitation of the study is that the results that are going to be processed during the research can be applied only in the investigated organization, Alendvic, that operates in the Perm market. Moreover, the key efficiency indicators of the HR-branding will be specified, so the operationalization of the results to other companies in the food sector of the economy will be of low possibility.
Another delimitation is that the research is aimed only at employer branding methods analysis, and other spheres or HR-management are not going to be considered on purpose. However, because of the interconnection of these processes there is the possibility, that some aspects and peculiarities of Alendvic’s human resources management may be identified.
The limitations of the research may be considered from the methodological point of view. The methods of data obtaining and processing are the following – interviews with the current staff and potential employees, management questionnaires and statistical data analysis. The process of data obtaining may be limited in terms of accessibility. The qualitative analysis, therefore, may be limited by means of the existing privacy policy of Alendvic. The quantitative analysis may be negatively influenced by the biased assessments of participants. 

Professional Significance.
The problem of highly skilled personnel attraction and its further management has become one of the key terms of maintaining the companies’ competitiveness in global and emerging markets. The relevance of this study lies under the fact that today the Employer brand is understood as a competition method in the employer market.

Definitions of Key Terms.
Personnel – “the people who are employed in a company, organization, or one of the armed forces” (Personnel, Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus, 2015).
Human resource (HR) – “the resource that resides in the knowledge, skills, and motivation of people. HR (under right conditions) improves with age and experience, which no other resource can do” (Human recourse, Business Dictionary, 2105)
Employer brand – “is a strategic and marketing effort designed to make an organization appealing as a place to work. The targeted marketing effort attempts to shape the perceptions of potential employees, current employees and the public” (Employer Brand, What is Human Resource, 2015).

Literature Review
The Employer Brand concept was initially formulated in the mid-1990s due to the interdisciplinary research actualization in the field of marketing and human resource management. The term itself was firstly introduced to management community in 1996 in the article “Employer brand” by a London Business School professor, Tim Ambler, in collaboration with Simon Berrow – the British business consultant (Ambler and Barrow, 1996). Eleven years after the publication of this article, Brett Minchington, one of the most respected experts in the field of employer branding, and CEO of Employer Brand International (EBI), noted that the interest in this concept “usually occurs as a reaction to economic developments, however, after the global financial crisis (IFC), more and more companies are taking a holistic approach to Employer Branding” (Minchington, 2006).
The four main reasons that explain the need for the employer brand formation have been derived (Novichenkova and Uvarova, 2014, p.74):
the lack of qualified professionals in the labor market;
HR-branding leads to greater productivity because of costs reduction;
employer branding allows saving qualified employees who form the company’s human capital;
employer branding creates a positive image that attracts new personnel and customers.
As a result, the company may experience an increase in the number of highly skilled and qualified workforce. In addition, the relationships development among the staff members may boost the generation of creative ideas and suggestions aimed at business-processes optimization and improvement in companies. The main advantages of Employer Branding may also be an increase of employee engagement in decision-making processes, the raise in the labor efficiency and the decrease in personnel losses within the organization. 
The additional values for employees form the basis of the employer brand; they act as stimuli of employees’ interest in the company and motivate the workforce. Moreover, these stimuli encourage staff to continue working for a company and refuse offers of competitors. This means that the organization may benefit from the HR-branding in terms of costs reduction, the organizational culture stability, and staff loyalty and morale. 
The additional values mentioned above can be divided into two groups:
material (economic) values – those that directly or indirectly affect the worker’s level of material well-being: the permanent part of wages – salary; the variable part of the salary – bonuses, rise in wages; and the benefits package elements – meals expenses, mobile communication, exercise or, for example, additional medical insurance reimbursement);
non-material (psychological, functional) values – those associated with the working process organization and the workplace itself (workspace, room, working conditions, working hours, number of shifts). Non-material values also are connected with the psychological state of employees (corporate culture, psychological climate, the nature of interpersonal relationships in the team, employee participation in decision-making, internal communications) and their status (level positions, rights and duties, responsibilities, work content and prospects for career and professional growth) (Mansurov, 2012).
Substantial characteristics (inner aspects of employer branding) reflect the human resources management system in the company. They include policies and measures in the field of selection and adaptation, training and development, staff remuneration, career management, internal communications management, employee organizations, and labor relations management. Effective human resources management system should form a unique set of additional values, allowing the new employees attraction and retaining those who work in the company.
Communication characteristics – external aspects of employer branding – reflect the information exchange technology and methods related to the target group of the labor market characteristics. For example, the company's participation in career days and job fairs in universities, the corporate website development, and the extent of whether the company has the internships programs for students. The employer brand exterior aspect also includes a set of verbal and visual identities of the company (its name, logo, symbol, color, slogan, legend, style), allowing it to allocate the labor market. Furthermore, this is also associated with branding activities of the company as an attractive employer in the labor market.
Hence, the effective Employer Brand includes the following characteristics:
an image of the company as an attractive place for job seekers and current employees;
a set of psychological, professional and economic benefits to the employer;
a method of forming differences in the company's corporate values, ideas.
In other words, Employer Brand creates staff loyalty and improves it morale towards the company. Moreover, it may provide a healthy working environment in terms of motivation and team-making processes in the organization.
Many researchers discuss the main stages of the employer brand development; they usually consider three steps of this process:
the employer branding formation;
the employer branding management;
the employer branding development.
According to this model, the first two steps – the formation and management of the employer brand – are mandatory. At the first stage, the key target groups are identified, i.e. working and potential employees. The groups’ segmentation may be carried out with the use of different criteria, for example, sex, age, professional status, work experience, ethnicity, and income. Then the staff perception of the organizational image as the employer may be analyzed through questionnaires and/or structured interviews. 
The second phase – the employer brand management – implies the adoption of the current management decisions taking into account the visual and verbal company’s identity in the labor market, and evaluation of the activities’ impact in the field of HR-branding. In order to assess the current state of the employer brand in international companies Minchington (2006) developed the “global index of employer brand”. It assesses staff perceptions on the base of 14 key company characteristics. These characteristics are the strategic intent, communications, management, internal business processes, innovation, thought leadership, a global perspective, corporate and social responsibility, customer relations, personnel policies, work environment, and employee development.
The third stage – the HR-brand development – implies the evaluation of the branding on the labor market. If the problems are detected, e.g. the ineffective positioning strategy in the labor market, misidentification in the target groups segmentation process, the lack of correspondence between the internal and external perception of the employer brand appearance, the company decides whether it has to take an action on the employer brand development (repositioning, rebranding, the employer brand extension). 

Methods
Various methods of data analysis are going to be applied in the research. Firstly, the qualitative analysis on the base of surveys, questionnaires and structured interviews will be used in order to gain reliable information about the existing HR-branding model. These methods will provide enough data to make some conclusions about the employees’ and management perception of employer branding in Alendvic. The key assessment criteria may also derived from the qualitative data. 
Secondly, the statistical analysis allows explore the key criteria in order to assess correctly the HR-branding strategy of Alendvic. The following indicators may be considered during the quantitative data processing – attraction costs per employee, the period of job closing, the ratio of the responses number to the number of vacancies, the number of incoming resumes, the coefficient of the approval of proposals, number of job offers made by recruitment agencies, and staff turnover.
Finally, the data gained throughout the research will then be given to the top-management of the company for it to be analyzed and implemented in the organization. The recommendations given may help the company the achieve its strategic HR-branding goals in terms of recruitment costs reduction, the decrease in staff turnover,  the morale and workforce loyalty improvement , and overall improvement of such systems, as HR-management, recruitment and selection, and employers branding

Results Anticipated
The results anticipated are going to be the following. First of all, the key assessment criteria of HR-branding in Alendvic will be identified. These criteria allow assessing the company’s performance in the field of employers branding. Moreover, the data obtained from the qualitative research will provide the reliable information that will allow deriving the unbiased conclusions.
It is also suggested that the great number of incoming resumes will be identified. As the company works in the sphere of public catering, there is a lot of people from Perm Krai regions who want to work in Alendvic. However, it is also anticipated that there will be high rate of staff turnover. This may be explained by the workforce structure – these are mainly young people at the age of 18-25 who study at universities, colleges or other educational institutions, and who are able to work only few hours a day. 

Conclusion
In conclusion, the problem of HR-branding is of great importance to a company’s management as one of its strategic aims is the recruitment costs reduction and maintaining staff loyalty and morale. Moreover, the employer branding allows the company to eliminate problems that may occur during the performance of the organization. Employer branding can save qualified human resources within the organization, lead to greater workforce productivity and create a positive company image.
Different methods of HR-branding assessment can be used in order to provide relevant data. These are the combination of both qualitative and quantitative methods, such as interview, questionnaires and statistical analysis. With the use of these assessment techniques, it will be possible to get data set about the HR-branding strategy in the company Alendvic and then to give valuable recommendations to the top management of the organization.