Introduction
Background. Under the era of globalized economy, the intensified competition pushes companies to contract out logistics operations and cut costs in an effort to concentrate on core competences. The logistic industry began to transform from the traditional transportation industry and this is continuing at a rapid rate. At present, scholars hold quite various doctrines about the role of logistical approach in transport process. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of organization of transport process signify the expanded role of logistical approach. As international experience shows, an important element in transport infrastructure is to have a broad and extensive network of freight forwarding companies. The prospect of the single market with free movement of capital, human resources, goods and services requires the improvement of the transport system. Investing only in development of technical means of transportation can not satisfy all the needs of customers. Transport efficiency can be achieved only on the basis of its integrated development, including through the introduction of logistical technology in the transport process. 

Problem statement. To improve the coherence of the various modes of transport and freight forwarding companies and make the transport sector systemic nature, necessary to introduce the practice of their operation principles of logistics. In the present project the governing organising principle in it analysis will obviously comparative, and this research interest will centre on identifying the practical effectiveness of the logistical approach. Therefore, the general purpose of research is proof of relevance and high practical orientation of logistical approach. In this case the main objective of research is practical application of logistical approach and check of its competitiveness in real economic conditions.

Delimitations of the study. In this research is examined logistic approach to management of cargo transportation, have analised different models of transport process which have offered by logistic scientist. It was considered main characteristics of transport system and methods of structurization and fixed that process of cargo transportation connects with large quantity of contract connections. Besides that, role of forwarder is different in various transport systems. At the same we bear in mind different functional areas of logistics: distribution logistics, warehousing logistics and transport logistics.

Professional significance. The approaches advocated by theorists are actual for transport branch of logistics. Consequently, this research will allow to find out the most effective way in the organization of transport process. Proceeding from relevance of this problem in a modern economic situation the choice of the most effective way of management is crucial for achievement of competitive advantages by the company.

Definitions of key terms. Freight forwarder – firm specializing in arranging storage and shipping of merchandise on behalf of its shippers. It usually provides a full range of services including: tracking inland transportation, preparation of shipping and export documents, warehousing, booking cargo space, negotiating freight charges, freight consolidation, cargo insurance and  of   (, 2007).
Model of transport process – the process of having the right quantity of the right item in the right place at the right time (Datta, 2009).
Logistic approach – a logistic process consists of the flow of goods and services and the monitoring and control of these flows. Typical activities include: transportation, inventory management, order processing, warehousing, distribution and production. Logistic management is concerned with the development of functions to support these activities (Hutchinson, 1997).
Multimodal transportation – is the transportation of goods under a single contract but performed with at least two different means of transport. I.e. the carrier is liable for the entire carriage even though it is performed with several different means of transport. The carrier, however, does not have to be in the possession of all of the means of transport and in practice usually is not. The carriage is often performed by using sub-carriers, in legal language often referred to as actual carriers. The carrier that is responsible for the entire carriage is referred to as a multimodal transport operator (MTO) (De Wit, 1995).

Literature Review
At the moment both domestic and foreign economists offer a large number of interpretations of the concept of "logistics". Such a situation according to the author, is due to the novelty of logistics as economic science, wide field of application, as well as the gradual advent of its new features. In particular, in article under the name "An approach towards overall supply chain efficiency" (Andersen, 1997) D. L. Andersen puts forward opinion that under the era of globalized economy, the intensified competition pushes companies to contract out logistics operations and cut costs in an effort to concentrate on core competences. The logistic industry began to transform from the traditional transportation industry and this is continuing at a rapid rate. Logistics deals with the flow and storage of goods and related information, as defined by the Council of Logistics Management. All the processes of planning, implementing and controlling the efficient, cost-effective flow and storage of raw materials, in-process inventory, finished goods, and related information from point-of-origin to point-of-consumption are for the purpose of conforming to customer requirements. Logistics, previously viewed as a classical function, which involves adversarial relationships among suppliers, customers and transportation providers, is emerging as a key source of competitive advantage and a leading reason for strategic alliance relationship between companies and their logistics providers.
However, there are potential problems of integration of the logistics approach. . Christopher M. in his writings advances the position that logistics will influence the future development of intermodal transport, and yield both opportunities and challenges. Service requirements are the major challenge to intermodal transport. Logistics will lead to ever-stricter service requirements and an increasing number of small consignments – a market which intermodal transport has lost almost completely. However, the increasing volume of freight flows, transported over longer distances, with better planning and co-ordination possibilities of logistics activities through ICT, could result in increased consolidation of consignments and improvement in the relative competitiveness of intermodal options. Therefore, in order to comply with these strict service demands and to be able to compete with road transport, intermodal transport needs sophisticated logistics concepts, using advanced information systems.
The next step, necessary to assess the applicability of the logistical approach in the transport process, is to study the modes of transport, as each of them has its own characteristics, which affect the final efficiency of the logistical approach. There are five basic modes of transportation: road, rail, air, water, and pipeline (Stock, 2001). Although the use of pipelines often offers the cheapest method in transporting bulk fluids in long distances, we will in this paper not regard this modality. The water transport via sailing vessels offers one of the most used and less costly means of transporting bulk goods. The use of rail is often associated with bulk items transported less costly than road to far distant markets. The flexibility and often-inevitable use of road for the beginning or final transport mode in a transportation chain makes this the most often used form of transport. Road transport is often associated with faster delivery in short distances and is attractive to shippers and customers that demand choice and flexibility in scheduling. Finally, air transport mode offers the fastest means of transport and usually the most expensive. This mode is usually reserved for high-valued goods that need to be transported across large distances. The use of air is also considered in short supply times, as in the case of disaster relief. All freight transport modes can include, for example, fleet management techniques, route, and maintenance planning, on-board loading/unloading techniques and on-board computers. In all cases, the emphasis will be on the impact on organizational costs and service levels. Usually in freight logistics, transportation represents the most important single element in logistics costs for most firms (Ballou, 2007). Transportation is a key decision area within logistics due to, on average, a higher percentage of logistics costs associated with this activity than any other logistics activity (Ballou, 2007). The selection of which mode of transport is to be used is dependent on several factors associated with the type of cargo/goods, e.g., requirements on speed, handling, costs, distance, flexibility etc. Intermodal transportation, refers to movement of goods in one and the same loading unit or vehicle that uses successively several modes of transport without handling of the goods themselves in changing modes according to the definition  of The European Conference of Ministers of P. Davidsson et al. / Transportation Research Part C 13 (2005). The definition is valid also for personal travelling that includes two or more different modes of transportation. One of the primary challenges in intermodal transport management is to coordinate several interdependent activities within the transport as well as the communication between the multiple actors involved (Stock, 2001).
It is also necessary to give a broader theoretical basis to the research of logistic approach and to note conclusions of domestic economists in this occasion. In this regard some definitions of this concept are considered and analysed further. So, professor B. A. Anikin (Anikin, 2002) gives the following treatment: "The logistics is a science about planning, the organization, management, control and regulation of the movement of material and information streams in space and in time from their primary source before final consumption". This definition is sufficient, clear and doesn't allow double interpretation. However the logistics in this case is carried only to scientific activity that is represented not absolutely exact.
In the interpretation of LB Mirotin (Mirotin, 2003) emphasizes the use of logistics theory compromises. The author defines it as "... an integrated joint activities of different companies for the planning, coordination and management of all functions, processes, operations, and procedures associated with the movement of goods from producer to consumer." It should be noted that the emphasis on the fact that in the process of promotion involving several companies, particularly important for the consideration of freight forwarding companies, which due to the specifics of their activities must support a large number of connections with elements of the system. 
The systems approach can also be divided into three stages. Firstly, the definition of the whole (system), part of which is the object of interest, in this case, the transport logistics system. Secondly, the explanation of the behavior and properties of the transport system as a whole (its properties are moving goods from producer to consumer in the shortest possible time with maximum safety and at low cost). Third, the explanation of the behavior or properties of the object of interest from the point of view of its functions as a whole, of which it is (for the element of the transport system - transport-forwarding companies - the basic functions of the system are the organization of cargo transportation and forwarding services at points of departure, transhipment and destination). Thus, the traditional approach to management based on the premise that the best performance of the system can achieve a simple summation of its parts in the best conditions of work. In accordance with the principles of the system for complex systems, this condition is not met: the whole is not equal to the sum of its parts.

Methods
The research design foregrounds concern about such logistical method as use of the operator of a multimodal cargo transportation. Multimodal Freight are international and domestic mixed cargo transport, ie when the cargo carried on the basis of a contract with two, three or more modes of transport. Types of transport can be combined in various combinations: rail, road, sea and air. Multimodal transportation is provided on the basis of the multimodal transport contract. The operator who organizes shipping, assumes responsibility for the carriage from the place of loading located in the same country and to the destination in another part of the country or in another country. A necessary condition for the functioning of the mixed system is well-developed information network, through which is provided pursuant to the contract of carriage of goods, ie, planning, control and management of the entire process of cargo transportation through the information accompanying, ending and advanced delivery process. Who in the world are widely used different systems to exchange data. The extent of the use of electronic information exchange systems largely determines the level of competitiveness of the organization in the transport market. This method is the most up-to-date, so it makes sense to test its effectiveness in practice. The methodology will take a definite shape as the study is processing. 
The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is a  and  problem which asks "What is the optimal set of routes for a fleet of vehicles to traverse in order to deliver to a given set of customers?". It generalises the well-known  (TSP). It first appeared in a paper by  and John Ramser in 1959, in which first algorithmic approach was written and was applied to petrol deliveries. Often, the context is that of delivering goods located at a central depot to customers who have placed orders for such goods. The objective of the VRP is to minimize the total route cost.

Results Anticipated
This part of the proposal is organized in terms of research questions posed in introduction, and research on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. One of the tasks set in this connection is to make the reliability and validity of the data collected high enough to support the sustained analysis. The expected result is the use of the logistical approach in practice, and the selection of its competitive advantages, which will be the proof of the effectiveness of this method. In the future we plan to develop this approach with the release of new techniques in order to achieve competitive advantage. 

Conclusion 
The findings are generally in line with objectives. The benefits that accrue to the cargo using the services of the multimodal transport operator, as follows:
multimodal transport operator usually gets discounts from the actual carrier as a regular. As a rule, it leaves itself only part of the difference between the base rate and interest rate discount, the rest part of it passes to the shipper in the form of lower rates through freight rates;
the shipper is exempt from the need to conclude the contract separately with each party and registration of transport documents for each stage of such transportation;
client-shipper is exempted from the need to have a legal relationship with a large number of other participants, as contracts with all subagents operator signs on its behalf. In case of loss or damage to the cargo load makes claim only the operator of multimodal transportation.
Therefore, due to the presence of a single control element - the operator of multimodal transportation – a system of "transport process" is becoming more organized, respectively, reduced unproductive downtime of cargo and vehicles, as well as transport costs are reduced through the provision of operators from the actual perpetrators of volume discounts.






