Introduction
Background. Currently the success of an organizational "survival" depends mostly on the executive staff ability to use methods that allow to invest in people and take advantage of human resources of the company in conditions of ongoing development. There is growing acceptance that ongoing staff development and training are needed to meet the challenges arising due to the constant upgrading and complexity increasing of the business environment conditions. 
According to many of HR and top managers, newly formed special managerial style is in a great importance today. The most perspective method for that matter is the coaching representing a partnerships realization, the professional and behavioural development of employees’  for purpose of creation a work motivation. 
It should be admitted that the various theoretical and methodological aspects of managing by coaching had been reflected in the numerous amount of studies.

Problem statement. The overall goal of this project is to develop a list of recommendations for the implementation of the coaching programs in the human resource management. Within this broad purpose the must be those of objectives:
to make a terminological analysis of the notion "coaching";
to identify the specific features of coaching;
to examine the methodology and philosophy of coaching as a tool of personnel development and human resource management;
to assess factors that influence the efficiency of coaching implementation in particular companies;
to evaluate the results of the application of coaching managers on personnel management in organizations;
to draw a conclusion on the basis of the results of coaching application by HR - managers in organizations.

Delimitations of the Study. The study findings will be limited by the selection of companies for the further analysis due to the sample that includes only managers that are already coached and use these skills in their professional activity.  Moreover, it has to be noted that the research will be conducted solely in Perm region companies that also may be a restriction in assignment of representative widespread results. Finally, the last delimitation is that result analysis and the further recommendations will be conducted with the usage of non-quantitative data due to the lack of the necessary methods. 
Professional Significance. In the framework of the paper, main interest and emphasis will center on the identification of the influencing features of a coaching process.  The crucial point of coaching application consists in the contribution to the conversion existing way of management into more effective new managerial approach. 
In conformity of the continuous interest to the investment in human resources and the lack of the reliable literature which for now indicates a very low representation of this direction. Theoretical value lies in the fact that this work gives broader understanding on coaching. 

Literature review
In this part I examine the theoretical approaches to the studying such phenomena as coaching and its features. The considerable amount of works on the given topic have been done to accomplish the revision of term “coaching” in field of human resource management.  Though the studied notion gains wide popularity nowadays, however, widespread misunderstanding about the concept of coaching still exists in Russia. There is an emerging evidence-base that it becomes a powerful tool to support professional and personal training of personnel at any level. An attempt to explain such tendency was made by a number of scholars - Gallwey, Downey, Dilts, Landsberg, Parlow, Rogachev, Smolyanov, Sorokoumova, Harris and others. Their studies were based on created  by psychologist’s (Freud S., Jung C. and Adler A.) theories.
The actual history of this branch dates from the XVI century, being the word of the Hungarian origin "couch" meant a vehicle. For a long time coaching was determined as a sports trainer or a private tutor and included mostly elementary features. For today, coaching is in general a process that aimed at achieving the objectives in various areas of human life (Maksimov, 2004).  Speaking about human resource management (HRM), studied notion has a small differentiation in treatment.  It is the perception of employees as an enormous additional resource through the possession of each unique abilities to independent decision-making, creativity, initiative, etc. (Dobrotvorsky, 2006).  However, for all that Carol Wilson assumes that the studied notion raises considerable doubt also due to the tendency that people still fully equate “coaching” with “teaching” or “training” (Wilson, 2010).  But these terms have several differences from the process perspective. In turn, the coaching process that is structured by Sir John Whitmore and detailed in his book is based on the so-called coaching models, with the GROW model (Whitmore, 2006).  This specific process of coaching is also characterized by a limitation in time of relationships between participants and coaches in virtue of the fixed number of training modules; permanent and regular structure of the coaching terms; work related issues of the program and its short-term orientation.  Consequently the studied conception generally represent the way, method or even philosophy of the company management.
The peculiarities of the coaching process can be identified during the following principles:
Systematic viewpoint. The strict sequence of educational stages, approach system technics are used. 
Has the focus. The process has a specific purpose.
Impartiality. Lack of estimates, restrictions and obtrusion of points of standpoints. It can be stated that the coach does not “repair” the client, does not resolve any of the client’s problems and emphasize his or her own superiority. The coach reflects the client’s actions and helps to transform it into autonomous abilities (functions) the client will be able to instrumentally use in specific situations (Starr, 2008). 
Personality orientation. The process primarily interacts with the human thoughts, emotions, ideas, choices, reactions without changing their external environment. Moreover, The method of coaching is based on the communicative cooperation in building partnerships between the coach and his client.
The science of the mind. The collection of philosophical principles intended to accompany people’s life improving.
Coaching through the terms of management means interaction between the head and subordinates that leads to significant increase in efficiency and productivity of work (Kapitsa, 2009). Accordingly, the given below options are the most obvious in the sphere of coaching manifestation in the work with the personnel:
personnel development;
personnel motivation;
estimation;
delegation of powers; 
problem solving;
communications; 
planning.
Currently discussed principles lead to the definition of the coaching given by Pugachev V.  It is a systematic clarification of the strengths and weaknesses of the employee in order to teach him self-diagnose and behavioral monitoring, to help him identify and address not only current but also future problems. 
Nevertheless, the different point of view also exists in academic arguments.    Thus, Ivancevich and Lobanov define coaching as "the daily interaction between manager and his employee in order to ensure training and retraining".   Although there is again a mixture of the notions “coaching” and “tutorship”.     This approach fails to grasps the dissimilarity of its meanings. A focus on described above features   proves that they are not synonymous.   In fact, teachers use existing knowledge and skills in order to help learners in improving their work efficiency by teaching them a “correct" behavior in the organization.  Tutors or mentors use their personal example and professional expierence assumed as a basis. Naturally, the origins of coaching lie in the field of traditional mentoring.  In spite of this, the coach assists clients, largely with the help of «participant observation», in finding his or her own solutions of any problem rather than solving it. That is the couch helps with the shaping of professional behavior models based on the deliberate choice. Importantly, the coach do not need to “be an authority in or have experience of the client’s area of activity” (Kołodziejczak, 2015), but he certainly needs to be an expert in disclosing client’s capabilities. Hence, in the current paper I do not in any way wish to question applicability of the described insight but rather attempt to focus on the efficiency assessment methods. 
The consideration of the coaching efficiency meaning can leads to the deepen understanding. Effective coaching is a coaching that generates the applicable behavioral changes, which cause improvements in the client’s ability to impact bottom-line business results. To make efficiency measurable some criteria must be taken into account:  coachee’s “coachability”; coach must fully accept all the data around and identify the key problems; intangible but critical mindset shifts must be linked to tangible and measurable behavioral shifts (Phillips, 2012).
According to the study conducted by one of the world biggest consulting companies together with the International Coaching Federation (ICF) the organizations highly appreciate the efficiency of coaching as tool, but thus they have certain difficulties with the classification of assessment criteria. All the following are the main of them:
leadership and skills development;
high level of management and employees involvement;
negativity and conflict situations reduction;
team efficiency enlargement (Hamlin, 2008).
In addition to that, accordingly to the Manchester Incorporation’s study results, organizations investing in coaching for their top managers received a nearly six-fold profit.
The above analysis does not attempt to point to the one and only approach of coaching but is meant to elucidate how the coaching essence and process are understood in this study.

Methods
In this part of the proposal, I aim to give a special emphasis to the methods that will be employed in my project.
There plenty of efficiency assessment methods exist nowadays. However, the chosen methods will serve the purpose of the present inquiry if the mentioned in Literature review set of coaching features might be  measured with this method’s application.  
Whereas the main purpose of my research is to create recommendations to the process of coaching program implementation, the established method will be applicable to carried out the research not only with the sample of coached managers but also with their subordinates. Since there is the lack of appropriate quantitative methods for getting the qualitative data obtained during the study of the coaching effectiveness the general research perspective is qualitative. The qualitative perspective will primarily include in-depth interviews with the coached HR specialists, internal survey addressed to the employees. Then the gained results will be analyzed with the use of The Kirkpatrick Model that is mostly applicable for the current research. After that, received  information will be compared with each other. The number of managers and workers exposed to the survey has not been precisely identified yet, but the approximate number of the first varies from forty to one hundred and the second – from ten to thirty depending on the amount of manager’s subordinates.  
Hence, these methods may allow me to make a grounded conclusion about the coaching features and this conclusion will become a representative foundation for the future recommendations. 

Results Anticipated
The final part of my project will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. Duly subordinated date will indicate  social and psychological features that mostly affect the process of the coaching implementation in the organizational activity. Moreover, the facts obtained will point out at the possible strengths or weaknesses that might be caused by the wrong coaching implementation or solved with the use of the coaching technique. Besides these results and based on that data program will be useful for other companies and its managers in case they are going to be coached and apply the acquired skills in the subsequent professional activity. 
Furthermore, the contribution in this sphere might be used for the next practical and theoretical implications of those who engaged. 

Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to briefly indicate the main ideas of the project. The problem of the study concerns development of the recommendation list for the program of coaching inculcation as a tool of HR- manager’s professional activity. 
It is more importantly to mention that this new way of management becomes an integral part of the modern administration. Therefore, the project was devoted to the theoretical analysis of the notion “coaching”, to the study of its features and efficiency assessment methods. Using the data obtained I intend to prove that coaching as a tool can be used effectively by managers in improving the involvement and motivation of the staff, in reducing resistance to organizational changes, in developing of the employees potential and the organization as a whole.