Introduction
Background. In modern business area the company is the whole complex of different blocks which are necessary for successful activity, prosperity and development of the company. All these blocks are essential in any business landscape. The present investigation will largely be confined to strategic management as an important part of the company. It is common knowledge that large corporations have the plan of its activity, named strategy. Also, accomplished businessmen believe that the strategy is the first step for achieving personal and business goals. All efforts of managers are much needed but destined to fall short unless they address the strategy. Substantive results will not be achieved without circumspect and well-defined strategy. According to Rosenfarb strategic planning was come from military and represented as “the overall direction of an entire war effort” (Rosenfarb, 2013). Particularly, strategic analysis structured a vision how to win the war, decreasing risks and increasing a probability of victory in battle. Nowadays strategic planning is used as a particular tool for making predictions and future intentions, transforming and improving organizational performance (Fleisher, Bensoussan, 2002). Moreover, it gives answers to the following questions: where a firm at the moment is, where it intends to be in the future and how to reach set goals. It is not surprisingly that achieving objectives depends on leaders or senior executives. While this view seems to gain popularity, a lot of managers do not give enough attention to site organization processes. 

Problem statement. In present investigation it is notable to demonstrate t role of the strategy in the company. The overall goal of this project is to provide a kind of logical reconstruction of strategic planning methods. Seen in their relations to the general purpose a number of specific aims will consist in theoretic arrangement and laying down a program throughout the research issue.

Practical significance. The research study will be of primary significance to strategic managers, development managers, middle managers and top managers. Managers may use the findings to better understand the internal and external situation of the company. In addition, improved strategy of the company will be based on widely known methods, which will be greatly used by managers in prospects. 

Delimitations of the study. There are a number of empirical limitations to be taken into account. Primarily, for the following reasons the present study will be severely limited in the study of planning stage design without implementation and application strategy in the company.  Secondly, this research may be restricted by industry-specific. Sometimes the variability of methods across branches is striking. And, moreover, information protection can become the barrier for carrying out deep investigation.

Literature review
Strategic analysis is science-intensive process, which involves evaluation data in different levels. Overall, the strategic management subsumes several related parts as follows: strategic planning and implementation of the plans. In its turn strategic planning process consists of some stages, including the significant one – a strategic analysis. To carry out this analysis it is necessary to consider different approaches.
Theorists hold quite various doctrines about key points of company’s operations for strategic analysis.  Some approaches advocated by theorists cover strategic analysis in terms of macro level. The followers of this approach suggest the study of global development trends, changes and forecasting of all companies in different branches (Bob, Meyer, 2005). Business environment in global level might be examined by such methods as PEST analysis, PESTEL analysis and Force Field analysis. Particularly, Force Field analysis was worked out by Kurt Lewin to provide new insights into the evaluation and implementation of corporate strategies (Lewin, 1951). These methods contribute in the whole view on changes in macro environment (Pearce, Robinson, 2011).  
There is, however, another view of strategic analysis, which investigates actively competitive landscape. There are several methods of competitive analysis like Porter’s Five Competitive Forces (Porter, 2008), Strategic groups analysis, offered by Michael Hunt (Fleisher, Bensoussan, 2002) and SPACE analysis (Pearce, Robinson, 2011).  These tools are necessary to analyze and define opportunities and threats, which take place in the industry. The company can use this information to improve its strategy according to the environment in the competitive area.
Microenvironment of a firm could be examined by a complex system, including VRIO analysis (Jurevicius, 2013) or McKinsey 7S model (Van Assen, Van den Berg, 2009). These methods are suitable to correct the business dimensions or to identify the effects of future changes within the company. 
Finally, there are some methods, which carry out portfolio analysis as follows: BCG matrix, Abel Matrix, Shell/DPM Matrix, Ansoff matrix, ADL Matrix and Hofer/Schendel model (, , 2011). These general models are based on market attractiveness and enterprise competitiveness in each market.  And also SWOT analysis can be used in the ranks of these tools because it gives overview about internal and external environment. 
Most of the research will be focused on investigative techniques learned in detail on all levels of analysis. There are the following levels in strategic analysis: global, industrial, market and internal. Different methods are used in each level, giving extensive information about the company. The program of recommendations is based on results of these applied methods. 
Now several methods will be presented in each level of the strategic analysis. Primarily in global level it is crucial to collect and analyze information about current and future situation in the market. Methods used determine tendencies of enhancement and recession in technologies, supply and demand. For instance, Gartner Inc. published the annual forecast in IT-industry for 2016 (Gold, 2015). Moreover, in this level can be used the next method, named as PEST analysis. This analysis is a study of the political, economic, social and technological factors in the external environment of an organization, which can affect its activities and performance (Van Assen, Van den Berg, 2009). It value influence and importance of each factors. And also the estimate shows company’s availability for unexpected variations. To follow and develop this analysis it can be decisive to apply PESTEL model, which involves environmental and legal factors (Van Assen, Van den Berg, 2009). 
After the analysis in the global level it is necessary to narrow the focus of investigation to industrial level. In a greater degree Industrial analysis is used in this case, which represents the overlook of  members, their characteristics and differences in branch environment (Fleisher, Bensoussan, 2002). The aim of this analysis is to find out profitable opportunities, heuristic factors and challenges in branch of activity. According to B. Karloef and F. Loevingsson it is also necessary to define specific characteristics of the branch, for example, market size, industry lifecycle, entry and exit barriers, number of suppliers and customers (Karloef, Loevingsson, 2006).
The next level of analysis is narrower, which examines the market as a close external environment of the company. The most popular method is Porter’s Five Competitive Forces. M. Porter claimed that there are five following forces: threat of new entrants, bargaining power of suppliers, bargaining power of buyers, threats of substitutes and rivalry among existing competitors. It is the research to evaluate company’s  in the industry and to identify what strengths or weakness can be exploited to strengthen that position. The tool is very useful in formulating firm’s strategy as it reveals how powerful each of the five key forces is in a particular industry (Porter, 2008). Following this method Thomson added it with strategic group analysis (Томпсон, 2007).  The latter allows comparing companies’ market standing and merging them in homogeneous groups. This method helps clearly understand special aspects of competition and identify direct competitors.
The final level of analysis is an internal company’s studying. One of the easiest method, named as VRIO analysis. It based on four questions that are asked a resource: Valuable? Rare? Costly to Imitate? And is a firm Organized to capture the value of the resources? (Fleisher, Bensoussan, 2002). Usually this method is used to analyze firm’s internal resources and capabilities to find out if they can be a source of sustained competitive advantage.  Besides that, in this level of company’s analysis there is another method – Value chain analysis. This is a process where a firm identifies its primary and support activities that add value to its final product and then analyze these activities to reduce costs or increase differentiation (Грант, 2008).
Mainly, data collected become the basis for carrying out the SWOT analysis, which defines strengths and weaknesses, features of internal description, opportunities and threats, features of external profile (Fleisher, Bensoussan, 2002). These points should be taken into account for business development in future. After this analysis it is possible to set out smudgy outlines of the company’s strategy.  For more precise strategy construction  is necessary to use other methods. In this case there are two popular matrices as follows: BCG matrix and Display business matrix. BCG matrix is a corporate planning tool, which is used to form firm’s portfolio on a quadrant along relative market share axis (horizontal axis) and speed of market growth (vertical axis) axis. The description of each quadrant is illustrated in the Appendix 1. Moreover, market attractiveness and competitive status of the company are evaluated in this tool (Davidson, 1985). BCG matrix was established at the intersection of life cycle theory and experience curve theory (Fleisher, Bensoussan, 2002). 
After the implication of all tools above-mentioned it becomes possible to formulate an appropriate strategy, which is based on findings. This well-designed plan will bring along of the company. The next part of investigation will be focused on necessary information for carrying out different methods.

Methods
On the whole, this part of the proposal is organized in terms of applications and information resources for each method.   As it was mentioned above, in the global level the analysis foregrounds concern about PESTEL analysis. It is necessary to collect information about political, economic, social and technological factors. All these factors are prepared by analytic centers and in the frames of investigation key points can be available by executive analysts and decision-making managers. In practice, an explorer collects these things, chose influential and probably varied factors in the near future. So, the company should try to change these forces, as strengthen.  To sum up, this method is necessary because it    acquires information in terms of hold analysis.
The approach used in industrial level concerns about sector-specific issues. An explorer uses statistics data to collect additional information about members in the branch and some characteristics of them. Also, this level of analysis requires the market size; to calculate it an explorer should analyze current situation and annual preview. And to define target audience it is necessary to take poll among potential customers.
To determine the competitive environment it is commonly used Porter’s Five Competitive Forces and Strategic group analysis. First of all, it is necessary to collect information about all forces from primary and secondary sources by holding interviews with strategic managers in the company. During the interview it is decisive to underline high powered threats because it influences company’s strategy. Particularly, if there is a high level of competition, an explorer will unite competitors according with list of available characteristics.
In the last level of analysis there are two methods, which characterize the internal vision. These tools are based on interviews with managers since they have enough suitable information. The first tool is VRIO analysis. In this case, the subject of analysis is key success factors. All of them will be examined by the following criteria:  value, rarity, imitation and organization. As a result, if the factor has a high level of VRIO, it should be used as a competitive advantage. And the second tool, which is recommended for analysis in this level, is value chain analysis. It is also based on the interview with manager, but here it is decisive to interview financial manager. This tool focuses on different costs in operating level. Firstly, these costs are observed in conjunction with the whole company’s activity. After that, there is an evaluation about how these payments with cost per unit are connected. And the last stage of this tool is to make a decision about creating the value for customers.
Appliance of the SWOT analysis and BCG matrix are based on generally findings of previous methods. To eliminate strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and treats it is important to interview managers, observe statistic data and evaluate forecasting. The life cycle of the branch and market share are necessary to construct BCG matrix. 
In conclusion, it is vital to mention that set of mentioned methods will be useful for strategy construction. The complex of tools provides an analysis in all levels of company’s activity.

Results Anticipated 
The final part of the proposal will be organized in terms of the specific research questions posed in part Problem statement. Primarily, the project will have some theoretical implications. The first result will be as following: arrangement of theoretical foundation in terms of appliance. The second result will be program plan development is certain company. In future investigation there will be an analysis of certain company’s activity. This evaluation will be hold to extend a research methodology and instrument to observe company’s competitive landscape. And the last stage will consist of creating recommendation program about the strategy in company.

Conclusion
This section will be the last part of my research proposal. In conclusion, I would like to indicate briefly the main ideas of the investigation. Strategic analysis has received a considerable number of methods. However, as discussed above, there is a recurrence scheme to structure all existent tools. I followed the principle from global to internal level. All methods have been accepted in some stages as global, industrial, market and internal. Nevertheless variety of methods it is not easy to establish an optimal approach due to sector-specific issues. As strategic analysis is a complicated process it is necessary to understand it fully in practice. Future prospects based on this research are challenging. To reach the aims set it is useful to take into account following key points: the first one is to begin an analysis with the global level; the second one is to keep in mind the sector-specific issues and the last one is to observe the company as a complex of different integral blocks. And also the main delimitation of the future study is to focusing on the certain company. The further practice will useful for company to develop its strategy.