Introduction
Background. The analysis of texts is necessary for simplification of processing of large volumes of data for works in the field of literary criticism, for example, definition of specific features of a genre proceeding from a set of texts of this genre; politicians, for example, definition of mood of the population on posts in social networks and other areas. Depending on the field, the analysis work can be done with structured or unstructured text. 
Problem Statement. Various analytical methods are used for text analysis: process mining, ontology-based methods, hierarchy building between text elements and others. However, when analyzing unstructured texts there are problems associated with the identification of text elements and semantic relationships of text elements. 
Delimitations of Study. Fictional literature, although it is classified as an unstructured text, but still has certain characteristics that describe its structure. On the basis of existing criteria: the size of the text, genres of works and other can be formalized work on the analysis of similar texts. There are solutions to identify a chain of some related events from Internet news. But this approach does not allow to work with other types of texts, as news from the Internet have different characteristics and some structure for description: date news, headline, text, links to other news.
Thus, to solve the problem it is proposed to design a system for the analysis of large volumes of fiction texts based on ontologies and genre features of texts.
The object is to design systems for text analysis, the object is the analysis of unstructured texts. The aim of the work is to design a system for the analysis of fictional texts based on ontologies.
The tasks include the analysis of existing solutions, the identification of genre features of the text, the description of the system's capabilities by means of UML diagrams and the development of a prototype.
Literature Review
This chapter will describe what is text and process mining and some methods based on ontologies which are used in text mining. The reason for this is that methods based on ontologies are shown to be efficient in processing text and these methods are getting more popular.
Briefly about process mining. Web, text and process mining methods are used to gather data from different sources for further work. For example, process mining methods based on retrieving information from business logs of events and building models of business processes, web mining methods based on scrapping structured web pages like pages with news. To sum up this paragraph, web, text and process mining are processes which use different methods.
Article is a whole manifesto about process mining. This manifesto contains aims and methods of process mining. The main goal, as said in, of process mining is to discover, monitor and improve real processes by extracting knowledge from event logs readily available in today's information systems. The event log is consisting of events, activities, which are detailed descriptions of steps in a process instance. Moreover, process mining techniques use whenever possible additional information on activities. For example, this kind of additional information could be resource, that is a device or a person acting in the activity, it could be a timestamp or any other information somehow related to the activity. Also, this manifesto describes challenges that occur during process mining and a short advice on how to solve it.
Paper explains what a rule-based system and machine learning-based system is as well as explains their pros and cons. These types of systems are used in process mining. Given a single example of method used in rule-based system, this method is regular expressions. On the contrary, description of methods used in machine learning-based systems is more detailed. This description mentions some supervised methods, some unsupervised methods of machine learning, features like statistical calculations (TF-IDF, word frequency) and special tags for words, that describe it characteristics. Machine learning methods can be used in classification of text by genre, so they could be useful in further work on methods of defining text genre.
Article describes a way to improve business processes by using process mining and domain specific modelling tools. Domain specific tools allows to create languages that tells how a process in works in current domain.
As a result, process mining could be applied to improve text defining genre process, but this process requires data about these activities.
Usage of ontology in text processing. There are multiple approaches to process texts: semantic analysis, sentiment analysis, statistical methods, cognitive analysis, etc. To define text genre, it is needed to understand events and their connections, so it is needed to make a semantic analysis of text. Ontology based analysis is one of the methods to understand logic connections between events gathered from data. 
Ontology could be used in multiple ways. As for text processing it could be used to describe structure of information sources to improve data extraction process as well as to describe logic in gathered data.
Articles and describes how multiple approaches, such as ontology technologies and web, text and process mining, could be combined to gather data from multiple web sources. In article ontology is used to describe structure of web page to extract information. Also, domain ontology is used to structure gathered information. 
In paper the whole architecture of proposed system is called ontology-driven, which implies that the key method of this system is based ontology. For this system knowledge base is built via editor. This knowledge base is a complex ontology, that describes rules, collects data from sources and describes structure of sources.
Article is about how ontology could be used to build a system for competitive intelligence, which is a process initiated in organizations of gathering data about their competitors. Similar to as main source of data used worldwide web. Another similarity is that ontology is used to describe structure of data sources. So, ontology is used as a part of data extraction tool.
In some algorithms for question answering compared and then proposed a new algorithm based on ontology for such system. So, ontology is used to make semantic rules for question answering system. Architecture of common question answering system is described. Input question goes through automated text processing, which includes widely spread methods like tokenization, morphological analysis, syntactic analysis and others. After text processing query is formed, then selected documents relevant to the query, which goes the same way as a question in input. The final step is to select fragments of text from documents. These fragments selected by rules written in ontology.
Paper describes system for semantic analysis, which is also use ontology as its core engine to define logic connections, like in paper. Moreover, one of the implementations of this system is also in a question answering system.
Conclusion. Process mining could be used to improve text genre classification process, but logs of such work needed. Supervised machine learning methods might be useful in defining text genre, but these methods might lack clarity in reasons why one text defined of this genre and data for these methods should be labeled. Methods based on ontologies suits well for defining rules and describing semantic connections between events gathered from text.
Finally summarizing this chapter, ontologies can be used to define rules and describe events that occur to specific fictional text genre. Additionally, ontology could be used to describe structure of fictional text, but the problem is that different fictional text could be structured differently. So, there is need of defining some rules via cognitive analysis, like in paper, which describes methods for fictional text analysis, that can be used to define some genre features.
Methods
In this chapter discussed methods, which are going to be used to achieve goals, and reason why are these methods are going to be used.
For studying text analysis methods will be compared multiple methods proposed in other studies and literature. The reason for using this method is that it is possible to complete in short time with limited resources. Comparison will be based on parameters found in other text analysis methods overviews. Furthermore, additional parameters are going to be found in articles about text analysis methods. Once the best method has been determined and thus the goal achieved, the determined method is going to be specified via UML diagrams. This will allow for better understanding of the chosen method further explaining how this method could be implemented. 
Studying text genre features is going to have similar steps as steps taken to determine text analysis methods. Different studies are going to be searched for criteria of specific text genre, then these criteria are going to be written in one document. The form these criteria are written will be determined after determined which text analysis method is used. The reason for this is that different methods of text analysis might require specific descriptions of these text genre criteria. 
To define functional capabilities of the system similar systems will be analyzed. Analysis consist of defining features of these systems and using UML diagrams to break down how do they work. This method is used due to being commonly used in description of such systems.
Description of how the system works will be based on definition of functional capabilities of the system and will be provided in UML diagrams. It is a commonly used method in computer science which also helps in development of a result product. Finally, prototype is going to be developed on C#, because there is some experience of using it by the writer of the current text.
Results Anticipated
This chapter estimates the results of project and how are these results could be applied.
The main result of the project aimed at designing a system is going to be the document with technical requirements of the system with schemes and diagrams explaining how the system works. To be more precise, document with technical requirements is based on and have diagrams in UML notation. The following diagrams are required in the result: use case, sequence, activity, state, communication, interaction overview.
Such result allows to implement designed system. Document and diagrams are in foundation of additional result. And as an additional result designed system is going to be implemented as a prototype with limited capabilities. Capabilities of a prototype are to be determined after design is done. The aim of creating a prototype is to show how designed system should work.
Additionally, there are going to be other results. Some of these results is going to be an overview article about text processing methods and an overview about text genre features. These results might be formed into articles and printed.
