Introduction
The housing market is one of the major segments of the real estate market, which carries a special social burden. The levels of housing availability and accessibility have a direct impact on the population's standard of living, on the birth rate, and on economic culture, as the purchase of housing is preceded by a long period of accumulation of money. An accessible housing market is necessary both for solving social problems and for the development of the economy as a whole.
At present, the value of apartments is assessed by experts - appraisers who use their own approaches in their work and do not have a common formula for assessing the value. This makes it very difficult to automate this process. But at the same time, such a system will be in demand among appraisers, and the system of valuation will be useful to buyers and sellers of real estate, realtors and others interested in buying or selling an apartment people, because it will help them understand how the offered price is adequate.
In economics, as in any other field of science, the application of mathematical computer modeling methods is promising. One of such methods is neural network modeling. To date, there is a work [1] devoted to the creation of a neural network model of real estate valuation in Yekaterinburg. In it the distances to the calculated centers with the maximum cost of apartments are used as additional parameters of apartments. The problem with distance from the city center is that the city centers is selected manually by the developer.
In this paper it is proposed to use another approach to accounting of the price area of an apartment. An auxiliary neural network will be used to determine the price area, which expects the geographical coordinates of the point as an input and returns the area's price index as an output. The development of such an auxiliary neural network is the main objective of this work, which is its scientific novelty. Thus, using the standard characteristics of the apartment and the district price index, it is planned to improve the accuracy of apartment price determination in comparison with the accuracy of the work.
The development of this system will consist of the following stages: collection of requirements for the system under development, development of specifications for the system, collection of training and test data, development of an auxiliary neural network to determine the price area of the house, training on the collected data neural network, testing the quality of prediction, optimization of the neural network, development of web-based end-user interface for the system.
The object of the study is the apartment valuation, the subject is the valuation tools that use machine learning methods, namely neural networks.
Literature Review
The task of valuating housing properties has been largely developed within the real estate market analysis, and there are more and more machine learning methods that improve the valuation accuracy.
Noelia Garciґa et al. in their work showed that combining artificial neural network (ANN) and geographic information system (GIS) can increase valuation accuracy. To do that they used 3 well-known ANN models: the multilayer perceptron (MLP), radial basis function networks (RBF), and self-organizing feature maps (SOFM) also known as Kohonen's maps. For input properties to these ANN models they selected obvious properties like surface in usable square meters, number of bedrooms and so on, and in addition to those obvious properties of the apartment, they also used the distance to the to the well-accepted city center - a total of 14 properties as input. The distance to the city center is calculated using GIS. To select cases, they used data of true buying and selling operations supplied by real estate agencies that is more accurate data than parsing offers - a total of 562 cases. After a series of experiments, they found that the best model to solve this problem is MLN.
Malgorzata Renigier-Bilozor et al. in their paper showed that the rough set theory extended by the fuzzy logic can show good accuracy for valuation of Polish and Italian commercial and residential real estate market on small training datasets. The authors note that the method developed by them can be used in the development of an estimation model if there is only a very limited dataset, while a machine learning model requires a lot of data.
I-Cheng Yeh and Tzu-Kuang Hsu in their work introduced a new valuation method called Quantitative Comparative Approach, which allow to evaluate the correction factor to get rid of the lack of subjectively selected correction factor. The advantage of the proposed method is the clarity and openness to people, in contrast to the ANN black box. The disadvantages include the linearity of the model.
Hasan Selim in his paper compared hedonic regression and artificial neural network models and demonstrated that ANN is the best option for predicting house prices in Turkey. The author also notes that the performance of ANN is ahead of the performance of hedonic regression.
Evgeny A. Antipov, Elena B. Pokryshevskaya in their study showed how Random forest can be used for mass valuation of residential real estate market. In that study they compared CHAID, CART, KNN, multiple regression analysis, artificial neural networks (MLP and RBF) and Boosted trees with Random forest and showed that the latter is superior to others in the accuracy of the assessment and identified the following very important factors affecting the cost of housing: "district, time to the city center by underground, house type"; and just important factors: "total area of the apartment in square meters and bathroom unit type". The study showed that the use of Random forest can be quite effective for evaluating residential real estate and that it is better to estimate the cost per square meter instead of the total cost of real estate.
Eduard Hromada used an innovative method proposed in his paper, called "historical market price", that "uses mathematics, statistical and database-founded algorithms for valuation". The biggest disadvantage of this method is the need to know the exact historical price without which the method does not work. The author finds that "such information is most readily available in old purchase contracts, old real estate appraisal, expert's statement, or construction contract. If none of these documents are available, it is possible to ascertain a copy of acquisition of property document at the local land registry which only charges a small fee for these copies". And if we have a historical price, we can calculate current price with help of 3 multipliers: index of detrition, index of constructional and technical augmentation of real estate and index of price level change in given location and for given category of real estate.
Jae Joon Ahn et al. in their work used ridge regression (RR) combined with genetic algorithm (GA). GA helps to find the right coefficients for RR. "GA is particularly suitable for multi-parameter optimization problems with an objective function subject to numerous hard and soft constraints". GA-Ridge is a combination of RR with parameters selected by GA. In that study, GA-Ridge is used for forecasting of home sales index (HSI) and home rental index (HRI) in the Korean real estate market. The study shows that GA actually improves the quality of ridge regression.
Chao Wang et al. showed how to use normalized interval regression model with outlier detection to solve house pricing problems. "There are two kinds of approaches for fuzzy regression analysis. One is the least square approach which aims at minimizing the distances between the estimated and observed fuzzy outputs. The other is the possibilistic regression model where inclusion relationships between given outputs and estimated outputs play a critical role". The latter is fuzzy regression. "Fuzzy regression analysis is a method to obtain a fuzzy functional relationship between the dependent and independent variables", but this model is sensitive to outliers. The study shows how to deal with the problem of outliers. To demonstrate real-world application of their method they used 3 input variables (household size, loan ratio and annual household income) and the output variable is an interval of acceptable house price in Shanghai. The advantage of this method is the price interval at the output, as opposed to a specific value at the output of artificial neural networks.
Sanglim Yoo et al. in their study showed how hedonic methods can valuate real estate price d in the Onondaga County, New York, USA. They used 3 methods: Linear OLS regression, Cubist (RuleQuest Research Inc.) and Random Forest for model training. As a result, it was shown that machine learning models have higher accuracy compared to linear regression. And among machine learning models, the highest accuracy is provided by a random forest that allows you to select significant variables for hedonic methods.
The proposed methods can be used to increase the accuracy of real estate valuation, which is one of the objectives of this paper. But none of the studies reviewed described a method of determining the price area of the house, so it will have to be invented by ourselves. 
Methods
The first thing to do is to gather the system requirements by interviewing the academic supervisor because he knows exactly what needs to be done. The first question will be "What do I need to do?" and then there will be more clarifying questions until everything is clear.
A self-written python script will be used to collect the dataset. Python has proved itself well enough in the IT community for writing scripts collecting data, and many libraries have been written for it to simplify this task. Data will be taken from real estate ads websites, because it is a public database. But at the same time, these sites show just offers, not deals, so the accuracy of such data is lower than if the data were about deals. All information describing the property will be used as data. In particular, it will be necessary to perform data transformation, for example, translation of the address into geographic coordinates.
Neural networks, both primary and secondary, will be built using the keras library, which allows the construction of custom neural networks. The library is written in Python, so there is no need to learn a new programming language. Development will be carried out in a special environment - jupyter notebook, which is an industry standard in the data analysis and building models of machine learning.
The web interface will be built using PHP together with the Laravel framework. The criterion for choosing these technologies is good knowledge of them, as well as the ease of website development with their use and easy deployment on a working server. 
Results Anticipated
The anticipated result is a system of real estate valuation which will be able to estimate the value of real estate according to the parameters entered by the user in a special form on the website. Such a website is also the result of this project.
However, besides the main result, there are also additional ones. One of them is an auxiliary neural network, which evaluates the cost of the location of the house. The development of this neural network is the scientific novelty of the work. And the following scientists can develop this solution to achieve more accurate estimates in the future.
The next big and very useful result is a large dataset that will be gathered to train the primary neural network. To train the neural network it is necessary to collect a database with the house parameters, which will not be ambiguous and contradictory. Making the right dataset is time consuming for data scientists. And when such a dataset is assembled, then the following researchers will not spend their resources on it.
Conclusion
If the method of estimating the value of a price area using an auxiliary neural network will improve the accuracy of real estate valuation, this will provide a basis for further research in this area. As a practical result, a web interface will be developed with the help of which anyone can evaluate any apartment by entering all the necessary characteristics. This will be useful for sellers and buyers to determine the adequate cost of the apartment.
 
