Introduction
Background. Service managers ask often their customers for feedback. The reason for this is that customer feedback is a very effective tool for improving company products or services. It allows managers to determine the direction of further development of the provided services, improve the quality of goods or see that it is necessary to completely change the approach to work with a particular type of goods or services. It is especially important to receive feedback if the service or goods are provided through intermediaries and have a large number of consumers, such as the provision of services by the Russian government through municipal authorities.
, Governor Viktor Basargin called improving the quality of municipal services one of the priorities at a meeting of the Russian Federation State Council in 2012. This task is complex and cannot be resolved without receiving feedback from the region’s residents. In addition, it was proposed to introduce special indicators to assess the effectiveness of municipal authorities and to improve the collection of quality assessments of municipal services.
According to the instructions of the governor of Perm Krai, a special system was created to collect feedback on the work of the municipalities of Perm Krai, allowing estimating the quality of services provided by municipalities to the residents of the region. The system covers about 80 thousand people (about 3% of the inhabitants of the region). People can express their wishes in the assessment of quality of services. However, the method used gives inaccurate and incorrect results. Therefore, it was a task to modify the existing system.
Problem Statement. The purpose of the work is to develop and implement a system for assessing the provision of municipal services in the Perm region.
To achieve this goal, several tasks have been solved in the work:
1. Examine the subject area for calculating estimates by users and the model for calculating the estimate of the existing system.
2. Determine the system requirements and develop a methodology for evaluation based on them.
3. To design and develop systems for assessing the quality of municipal services.
To achieve this goal, the following methods are used: analysis, modeling, comparison, formalization.
Delimitations of the Study. Object of research - a method of quality assessment. The subject of the study is a system that performs an assessment of the quality of municipal services according to consumer estimates. This work involves the development and implementation of a methodology for assessing the services of the city and regional authorities of the Perm region.
Professional Significance. The practical significance of the work lies in the possibility of using the developed system on the website of Perm Krai. This will allow you to calculate the user-defined assessment of the quality of municipal services and report on the basis of these data.
Literature Review
For the beginning we shall mean that we will understand by the term "quality". In a philosophical sense, quality is a meaningful criterion that distinguishes one subject from another. In terms of production, this term refers to a complex of significant consumer properties of goods or services that are relevant to the consumer. In his works American professor H. D. Harrington defines the quality as satisfying the consumer's expectations for some possible payment if necessary.
Another basic concept emerging from the concept of quality is the term "quality of services". Quality of services means a set of properties that can meet the needs of the client at the level of requirements. The quality of services is difficult to evaluate simply because it always has special requirements for each component of the evaluation process. In addition, it has limitations on how to use the results obtained.
Next, let's consider the evaluation model used in the existing system - the calculation of the lower limit of Wilson's confidence interval for the Bernoulli parameter. This method allows us to find a balance between the percentage of positive estimates and the uncertainty of a small number of observations, which allows us to answer the question: What "real" estimate will be with a probability of 95% if we have a certain set of estimates? The model takes into account both positive and negative assessments, that is, it is not limited to a positive scale of assessments. The lower limit of the positive estimation fraction is calculated by formula.
where  - the percentage of the maximum for criterion i in the total number of estimates for a given range of estimates;
n – the number of users who evaluated the service;
v_min is the lowest possible estimate within a given range of ratings.
v_range is the width of the given range of values of estimates.
z is a quantile of the standard normal distribution.
In addition, the model implies the consideration of the aging of estimates, so older estimates have a lower weighted average in accordance with the logarithmic dependence of the natural logarithm. This estimate is calculated using the formula.
where x is the initial estimate;
t is the serial number of the reporting period (from 0);
T is the number of reporting periods.
This model has its advantages and disadvantages. This model is confident about how many people will do a certain thing, which helps to abstract emissions from estimates and concentrate on the general trend, and also takes into account the age of evaluation. In addition, this method takes into account situations in which user estimates for a particular service are very low. This represents the main minus of the model, since for small data samples, the model tries to display an average value, which is critical in the production of service quality reports.
Another estimation calculation model is based on the user's estimates is EM algorithm. The algorithm is used in mathematical statistics to find the values of maximum likelihood of parameters, if the model depends on hidden parameters. The idea of the EM algorithm is based on the fact that it is possible to construct a model for a set of data by a linear combination of multidimensional normal distributions. This is used to estimate the distribution parameters that maximize the quality measure of the model - logarithmic likelihood function. This helps to determine the overall logic of the available data, by means of eliminating emissions and restoring missing data.
In the article "Rating Movies and Rating the Raters Who Rate Them" we present a detailed algorithm that makes ratings of films according to the user's estimates. The estimation model in the example above includes a large number of parameters, so it is difficult to estimate the maximum likelihood. The authors output a simple EM algorithm from the point of view of a more general mm algorithm that detects emissions, overrides raw ratings and allows you to enter missing ratings, which is the main advantage of this algorithm.
However, the algorithm has a number of shortcomings. First, it is possible that the assumption that all data measurements are normal will not be fulfilled. Secondly, if the attempt fails, the convergence rate may be slow or the algorithm itself stops at the local minimum and will give an incorrect solution.
The last model will consider the rating calculation model presented on the site of Banki.ru. This method is used to compile a national rating of banks. It is based on the usual calculation of the arithmetic mean of all estimates of a particular service, as well as the age of recall and the total number of protective assessments for a bank or company. The distinctive features of this technique are the accounting of the time of the evaluation, the total number of evaluations for a particular bank when using the evaluation function or formula and the introduction of a coefficient that takes into account the falsification of the recall and the decreasing reputation of the bank.
The total formula is calculated as follows. The sum of the calculated estimates, each of which is multiplied by the coefficient depending on time, is combined with the production of an average score for all banks by a statistical correction. This value is then divided into the sum of all the time factors folded together with the statistical amendment mentioned earlier. In addition, the value obtained is multiplied by the factor of counting falsified reviews.
The main coefficients specified in the general formula are calculated as follows. The evaluation time factor is considered by exponential form of dependence. This method is often used to represent the obsolescence of information. Another factor - the accounting of falsified reviews, is calculated as the product of the share of truthful reviews on the share of truthful reviews taking into account time.
where X is the number of days from the time the feedback is written to the current date.
e is the base of the natural logarithm.
Let's look at the advantages and disadvantages of the described algorithm. The main advantages of this method are that the time of writing the feedback and the truthfulness of the evaluation is taken into account. However, this technique is not possible because the constants in the calculation of the coefficients are specified for a specific area. In addition, there is no clarification as to how to distinguish true feedback from false feedback.
All the methods discussed have their advantages and disadvantages, which prevent them from being used directly, so the technique will be compiled a new one based on all the algorithms considered.
Methods
Several methods are used to solve the tasks and the goal.
Theoretical scientific methods such as study, systematization, analysis and synthesis are used to solve the first task. During the first work stage, the literature of foreign and domestic authors on the topic “rating calculation” was collected and studied and the existing system's critical analysis was carried out based on the obtained systematized data. At the end of this stage, a knowledge based was synthesis for a data source for the basic requirements formation of the developed system. In addition, basic concepts and definitions that were significant for understanding the topic were obtained.
Formalization and comparison are used to solve the following problem. The data obtained in solving the first problem will presented in the general formula used to calculate the rating. Then formulas will compare, and the most optimal option will select. Next we will use the generalized mathematical model, with which we will describe the final method of estimation of quality of municipal services. It will serve as the basis for the development application.
Modeling and idealization are used to solve the latter problem. The object-oriented programming methodology will use for system design, since it presents the program as a combination of objects, which will help implement a method that consists of several parts and may require adjustment in the future. A graphical description of the system will be presented in the UML methodology describing object modeling of the software. As a result, we will obtain the model in accordance with which the system will develop. Idealization is used during the tests, writing to verify the developed system quality.
Results Anticipated
We reviewed and analyzed existing methods for assessing quality and identified the advantages and disadvantages of the existing system. Further, on the basis of these data, requirements for a new assessment method and the entire system were identified and developed. Based on the requirements, the basis of the evaluation method will be the methodology of the site of the bank.ru, which will be further developed taking into account the other methods considered. Based on the data obtained, a generalized mathematical model will be developed, which will be the basis of the final method for calculating the assessment of the quality of municipal services. After that, the design of the architecture that implements the method of calculating estimates and generating reports will be performed. After this stage, the software implementation of the system for assessing the quality of municipal services and the testing phase of the application follow.
Conclusion
The project presents an analysis of the main methods of assessment by users and a critical analysis of the existing system. Based on these data, the main requirements for the new system were drawn up. In addition, data were collected for the development of a mathematical model for the method of calculating the quality of municipal services. 

