INTRODUCTON
Constantly changing economic and technological labour conditions of modern society cause changes of professional qualification requirements of most fields of activity. Today’s specialists are not only to demonstrate proper theoretical background and practical skills but also to have relevant personal qualities like teamwork, professional creativity, quick learning skills etc. Employees need to have what is called competences, since the latter incorporate all factors of professional efficiency. This draws attention to a competence development issue.
Traditional teaching methods such as lectures are of passive nature, which practically means no more than giving information to students and testing what was learnt. Yet, only active learning fosters competences by encouraging educatees to act independently and apply their individual qualities.
There is plenty of techniques aimed at involving educatees into the learning process and stimulating their individual capabilities’ development. The method of business games has recently gained much attention among universities as well as enterprises since it makes possible putting students in unexpected conditions compelling them to act creatively. In this way, business games are highly efficient for both developing and testing competences.
The range of competences encouraged by business games is believed to be highly various. The members of Business and Management Department in Open University of Catalonia cite at least thirty seven generic and specific managerial competences fostered during a business game. According to Khrushchev, et al., adaptation of business games in the educational process is to be based on the didactic principles of demonstrativeness, activity, accessibility, combination of theory and practice, scientific character and involvement, which are largely used in teaching process.
Information technologies are going forward in all spheres of life bringing about ubiquitous automation. Competence-based business games are not exceptional in a vast range of fields that are already computerised. Many software producers offer business games solutions and there are even companies that specialise in the domain concerned.
The main constraint of the existing business games information systems consists in a subject dependence. All the best practices are based on particular business games. Borrajo et al. propose their vision of a so-called business simulator or a business game studio. The solution introduced represents a multipurpose web-based program tool enabling concerned parties to use business games in teaching and business practice. However, it still has limited arguments for a domain-independent business games development. At the same time, the idea of a domain-independent business game tool presents convincing advantages including a wider applicability, saving time and financial resources.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Existing domain-oriented business games systems show efficiency in learning, but their specificity makes them inapplicable when it comes to different business conditions. At this rate, there is a need for a special CASE tool providing a complete business game elaboration. As a black box, such a tool would take non-formalised business game information like a text description or a graphical scheme. The data would be particularly processed and turned into a business game. The tool could all along serve as a runtime environment for its games. As a result, such a solution would entirely automate business games life cycle.
However, implementing such a system appears to be a highly complex task due to a multicomponent architecture of the latter. All the elements have to be not only elaborate but also well integrated. Taking into account the constraints, a concept of the tool mentioned has been being developed as a competence-based business games studio (CBGS).
The CBGS is to be composed of several subsystems covering all the stages of business game development including running and testing. The first phase of the process – planning of a business game – is to be implemented by the designing subsystem. This subsystem is now best developed among the others in respect that there is a program prototype of it. The main problem consists in completing the designing subsystem  that now includes two separate components.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The CBGS development process comprises elaborating all its components separately. The aim of this work is to develop the designing subsystem. The work will be carried out based on the existing program prototype, which has issues to solve. Firstly, it is necessary to put away the errors and set the minimal required functionality. Secondly, there are still some significant functions missing, so the prototype has to be completed with the full capabilities. Finally, as the program now includes two distinct components, there is an integration objective.
APPROACHES
Overview
In the work, general scientific and theoretical methods of research will be applied. Besides, the integration objective requires using complexation method as it can provide full joining of existing components considering conceptual details. Finally, since business processes are concerned, a modelling approach is also to be used.
Data Collection
Most data to use will be taken from the covering notes of the two components, which have been developed in the framework of the designing subsystem. The first component is conditionally called a Business Process Editor. This unit is intended to transform non-formalised subject description into a logical scheme of the business game algorithm (ALS). The process is divided into several stages, the first of which is a transition from a text description to a unified business process (UBP) model that is free of unimportant details. Then a UBP model is turned into an educational unified business process (EUBP) model becoming appropriate to use in a learning process. Finally, a EUBP serves as a basis for an ALS generation. The EUBP model and the ALS together are referred to as the Automate Model.
The second component is called a Resource Editor and is used to associate business games resources with the ALS. The UBP model uses resources of different types including labour, information, service, goods, finance etc. The editor is used to assign resources of a particular type to each operation in a EUBP. All the data is stored in the resource database included in the editor. The database and all procedures of the resource management are considered the Operational Model.
Although the main research resources are available in paper there might be a need in extra information for a deeper study of ALS and its generation algorithms if the existing one does not suit.
Data Analysis 
Based on the editor prototype description it is necessary to analyse its interior arrangement and find out whether the algorithms are optimal in terms of complexity and time spending. Along with that, any errors must be detected and provided with a correction plan. As Business Process and Resources editors are not complete, reaching a minimum required functionality of both is needed. This is to be carried out according to the CBGS designing subsystem. The existing functionality is estimated about 70 % of what was initially scheduled.
The two components will be subjected to a compatibility analysis to be proved either or not compatible. Several conceptual characteristics like input and output data, design patterns, models interaction and so on will be used to find contact points. Then there must be a list of modifications to introduce in order to integrate the editors into one tool.
PREDICTED FINDINGS
Business Process and Resources editors will be fixed according to the data analysis findings. The resources edit functionality will be called directly from the business process editing. The resources database will be connected to the ALS.
As a product of the research a single Business Process Editor will be developed. The existing editor components will be merged to form one program module. The solution will represent the Designing subsystem of the CBGS. Once the subsystem is ready for service, it will boost the other subsystems’ development.
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The research is carried out strictly within the Designing subsystem of the CBGS, thus it does not consider changing any other system’s components. The output of this subsystem will be used as input data for the other ones, yet current study is not to cover the way succeeding subsystems will treat that information.
Since this research is a part of a graduation work there are time limitations according to which the broader aspects of the subject will not be thoroughly covered. The moments to view are those mentioned in the problem statement.
CONCLUSION
Competence development has recently become an urgent issue. Among others, business games show a high quality way to encourage employees to acquire teamwork, decision making etc. Still computerized business games are closely dependent on a subject area. By the use of complexation and modeling mainly, a Designing tool for domain-independent business games has been developed. Consequently, the CBGS is currently enabled to transform non-formalised data into a plan of business game. Since only Designing subsystem was concerned, the succeeding components of the CBGS will be the case of the further research. The results of this study will be used primarily for a Running subsystem elaboration.
