INTRODUCTON
Topic of the research is business model development for electronic auctions. It links the both sides, business model definition and online auctions market. An auction market is the subject area that closely related to this research. People are inclined to spend more money via the Internet. The way of using e-cash makes it easier and faster to handle an online transaction that carries out sales and purchases. This tendency explains that e-commerce is becoming a suitable alternative of making purchases. It also seeks a leadership position in terms of market share. Furthermore, internet auctions are concerned with Government purchases. This fact explains crucial importance of auction market. The lack of real models occurred with free access proves the considerable need of developing business model conception and building of a business model.
The research goal is exploratory because it requires creation own conception to consider an architecture of companies dealing with electronic auctions. The problem is that some companies` models can be inefficient. Business analysis has tools which might be useful in improving. It can touch business processes of a company or business flows.
The topic is taken because of widely used online auctions. There is also an experience in auction market. For instance, such a big service eBay allows selling [S19]and purchasing goods regardless of location or language. A user faces a fairly simple interface. This service also has a seller reputation rate and it is also possible to track some goods or seller.
To build business architecture of any company is possible but it was called impossible. This means only an assumption and the possible reason is the lack of resources to evaluate some large organization.
The literature offers a large number of definitions for a Business Model (BM) in the software industry. As it mentioned in Zott et al. (2011) there are three fields of research which are innovation in Business Models, strategic aspects and performance management, and e-business including information technology.  As a result amongst these fields, they summarize that BM are individually tailored to companies and the environment in which they operate. Next, they indicated two main points: the business model as a representation of the logic of value creation and capture, and the structure, architecture, or framework of the business. These two aspects allow BM to bind abstract-level strategy (theoretical part) to its implementation (practical part).
PROBLEM STATEMENT
The whole concept of business model does not exist.  It means that the definition is blurred and has many forms. It is extremely hard to find the real business model with free access. Large and successful firms prefer not to disclose their trade secret. The search of a real business models[S26] demands for resources that stray beyond the research boundaries. There are many practical ways to create a business model but none of them are not applied standards. Despite the fact of existing techniques the lack of standardized measurement for business modelling does not let it be widely applicable. Modelling is an option aimed at potentially improving company`s efficiency. The goal of modelling is simple as it is typical object for the business. It is profit earnings and then its maximization.
As previously mentioned the definition of business model is blurred and the ideal concept must include a list of methods to use. It may be divided into indicators that depend on the way which sides of a company need to improve. In case if a company plans to model their business it is needed to consider which method of modelling to choose. 
The goal of this research is to develop business model for electronic auctions. It can be broke down smaller tasks. They are modelling methods analysis, a choice the needed methodology and constructing the model. The research can be conventionally divided into two essential parts: business model methods investigation and electronic auctions as an object of the business model. Completed first part guarantees that the concept of a business model is build and the model for electronic auctions can be developed.   
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The general objective of the research is a concept of business model as a whole. An analysis of current methods for business modelling means the result of searching the topic. The key aim requires to find the essential concept of business model and then to develop it for electronic auctions. Before that it needs to cover the topic of auctions, namely which types of auctions take place on the market. Fundamental rules of auctions and web services are also needed to take into account.
METHODS
To understand how business works it requires analyzing it and finding which elements to fix. There is a large set of patterns that help to discover what conditions companies suffer from. Business also needs to formalize data and avoid repetitions. Unified modelling language is to figure models significantly. Using this tool is necessary to visualize data. It becomes an easier way to present data. The algorithmic language is also useful aid to describe a model. Functional and architectonic specification methods are applicable as well. 
PREDICTED RESULTS
The general aim is development of business model for electronic auctions. The desired result will be an efficient business model for electronic auctions. In this case it focuses on the efficiency rate of a model. To construct a model that will work properly it also needs to analyze existing solutions which have a significant impact in this field. Finding of this research is also important. There can be defined the unique attributes which the only successful models have. Thus, investigating other models can help not to commit common mistakes and build the efficient model. 
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The research is limited by the lack of resources, time and money. There is no company to sponsor the research. The lack of reliable and its availability is a serious limitation to face in the research.
CONCLUSION
To summarize, it runs to explain why the topic is so valuable. First, a generally accepted concept of business model does not exist. It emphasized the importance of investigation modelling methods. Second, electronic auction has market share leadership in e-commerce area. It is interesting to research the field where there are not examples. This fact takes on an innovative aspect.
The result of this work will be developed business model using formal languages, algorithm languages and architecture specifications languages.                
         
