Background. Nowadays cyber-physical systems (CPS) are becoming more and more popular. CPS are systems which consist of different physical objects, subsystems and controllers which are connected in a network. In such systems physical objects are different entities of real world: transport, medical devices, factories and whatever else. The popularity of this technology is explained by many actual tendencies, which are reduced prices of devices, resulting in growth of their quantity, cheaper Internet and new means of devices connection and interaction, what led to possibility of high-level integration and building complex systems. Data storage systems and software made a technology leap as well, now there is a big variety of solutions created for usage in CPS and the Internet of Things (IoT). Time series databases, IoT management systems and platforms also contribute to popularity of cyber-physical systems.
Problem statement. However, despite the growth of devices and technologies in number, modern software designed for CPS management are not designed to work with such complicated systems as buildings or vise versa they are too flexible. Moreover, a very little number of platforms is suitable for using in intelligent buildings. The idea of an intelligent building is using a digital twin for predictions of future building's state based on current state and historical data. To solve the problem stated following tasks are to be done:
1. Examination of existing concepts in CPS field of study.
2. Choice and comparison of existing technologies in IoT and CPS.
3. Requirements analysis.
4. Highlighting and formalization requirements to a system developed.
5. Design and development of a system.
Delimitations of the Study. Object of the research are cyber-physical systems, while IoT devices protocols, IoT devices, software used in these systems being the subject of the research.
Literature Review
During the last years, IoT and related technologies were gaining interest. As a result, numerous articles dedicated to smart homes, smart buildings, IoT itself and many other closely related topics were appearing. Many authors share their ideas, visions and approaches to this domain. This literature review's aim is to review some of articles and point out the major trends which can be reused in the work present.
Many articles are dedicated to examples of IoT applications in industry, everyday life and show the impact of systems on the economy. Minoli et al. review applications of IoT in industrial sector, focusing on Smart Building idea. The authors point out that there are possible use cases of Internet of Things technology for energy saving and security systems. Researchers give some insights and proofs of their ideas with real data. Do-Hun Kang et al. share these ideas in their paper: IoT systems can be used for building monitoring systems for energy saving and personal security purposes. As a proof of their concept, researchers build a real functioning system using AWS and MQTT technology stack. As is observed by McKinsey Global Institutes researchers, there is a huge potential in using IoT technologies for creating smart buildings. Analysts give information on many possibilities of usage the technology in everyday life, the impact on the economy and forecasts on the number of systems to be deployed by 2025, the money to be invested in IoT research and development, possible savings due to technology usage. 
There are some articles in which technical site of IoT systems is being researched. Architecture, software usage, proofs of concepts are a huge field to discuss and evolve. Do-Hun Kang et al. build a prototype of a smart home system using Amazon Web Services hosting and MQTT Mosquitto protocol and message broker. The authors share the architecture of system they have built and show the live-action examples, moreover, they share their implementation of cloud IoT system using the tech stack described above and Arduino devices as a hardware. As a conclusion, they notice that it is possible to use quite popular technologies from other areas of IT to build IoT smart home systems. The paper of Al-Jaroodi et al. is dedicated mostly to the software implementation of cyber-physical systems (CPS). Authors claim that using high quality hardware is only the first step, highlighting the importance of implementing "the right" software. Researchers give an overview of software engineering issues in the IoT domain. Salikhov et al. suggest using microservice software architecture in IoT domain. Their work is dedicated to building a prototype of a platform based on microservice approach. The researches give an example implementation of hardware and software architecture of CPS to use in student dorms and campus buildings of Innopolis University. However, authors point out that there are several obstacles such as a narrow set of tools to use, limited documentation, etc.
A set of works on IoT and CPS are discussing challenges that exist in the domain. Shih, et al. dedicated a paper to a list of topics that are underresearched at the moment. Those are "middleware, computation model, fault tolerance, quality of data, and virtual run-time environment". The researchers give examples of possible bottlenecks in IoT architectures, point out the possible solutions an trade-offs. Mordinyi and Biffl highlight the main strengths and limitations of best-practice approaches in system versioning and version engineering. The authors claim that the CPS are very heterogeneous and involve work of engineers from different domains, what leads to misunderstanding and impossibility to join approaches from different fields of study. Researches discuss these challenges and mark the issues for further research.
The IoT and CPS are young and rapidly developing domains therefore there are many papers appearing. All of them provide some ideas and solutions, however most of them claim that there are challenges in using existing and building new technologies, integrating and implementing prototypes and PoCs in real life, so there is a lot of research to be done.
Methods
Different methods will be applied in the research. During the concepts' examination, choice and comparison of existing technologies, qualitative analysis will be used: I was doing a case study based on other researchers' papers and filling in the comparison tables for the subjects of the research.
Based on the results of the qualitative research, it would be possible to start an analysis and formalization of requirements for the system being built. During this stage I will be using popular and widely used UML (Unified Modeling Language). UML provides a standard set of diagrams to describe a software system. The set consists of 15 types of diagrams which allow to describe system usage and behavior in different scopes. Most important diagrams for requirements analysis and formalization are the following. Use Case diagram was used to formalize the user's point of view: possible user stories and the system's features. Activity diagram was used to highlight the flow of data in the system, the order of actions while using it. Interaction and Sequence diagrams were used to formalize the interaction between the components within the system. To formalize the system for future development, Class diagram was used. In Class diagram the entities, their methods and attributes were described. As far as system being developed is service-oriented, Component diagram and Deployment diagrams were used. These two show the structure of a distributed system.
During the development version control system Git and git-flow method will be applied. This approach allows to develop software incrementally, with possibility to rollback to any state of system in case of any code mistakes or when you want to undo any changes in the past.
Results Anticipated
During the research the following outcomes are expected. First, these are the results of IoT and CPS systems examination and comparison, such as comparison tables and different scorings. Secondly, the system requirements will be specified, considering the strengths and weaknesses of existing technologies discovered during the previous step. Then, after the requirements formalization a set of UML diagrams will be prepared, including such as use case, activity, sequence, interaction and class diagrams. Moreover, possible outcome of this stage are the prototypes of user interfaces and the means of future integration. After the use cases, system behavior and structure, flow of data are described, it will be possible to proceed to system development. To begin the development, the most suitable technology stack, including programming language, frameworks, database management systems and protocols to use will be chosen. During this stage the databases' structures will be designed and implemented, the system's services will be designed and programmed. Then, it will be possible to integrate the services into a single system. An outcome of the last step will be the rationale of the technology stack choice, implemented databases and surely the developed system.
Conclusion
In this project there will be done a deep research of CPS field, especially, such systems as intelligent buildings, such technologies as digital twins. There will be described different methods to use while developing a system for intelligent building management. This research is supposed to give ideas and possible solutions of creating intelligent CPS which can predict data based on the digital twin inside of the system, current and past states. Although the CPSs and the technologies used in CPSs are being researched and used during the project, still there are a lot of them to research deeper and to involve in the system being developed. These technologies can allow users to use more different devices in the system, which will result in overall better user experience and the level of system's intelligence.
