INTRODUCTON
Topic of research is Development of Banking Interest Computing Service. The subject of the research are functionalities and means of development Microsoft Visual Studio for creation of web-service for banking interest computing. Users frequently face a problem of a transparency of calculations under contributions and deposits, not have possibilities to check up algorithm of calculations and rules of the account under commercial percentage formulas. However, and, banks have a demand of modelling of various contributions and deposits which in the market a plenty suffices. The object of research is the organization of work of web-service as evident tool, including for banking calculations. The goal of the research proposal is the creation of percentage banking calculations service for research objectives. To develop interest banking accounts service will be used recursive methods and algorithms that have been obtained in the analysis of banking formulas for the calculation of interest on the deposit. Attitude towards recursive algorithms (and a recursive design methods) has always been wary. Despite the impressive clarity algorithms have spectacularly small initial size of the source code, in fact the actual program performance often leads to frustration of developers all at once: the algorithms and, at the same time, design methods. When considering the recursive algorithms in computer systems was placed emphasis on the study and application of commercial calculation. Relevance of the chosen topic due to the fact that the market of banking services, including deposits and savings issues arise not only bankers, but also consumers. To resolve this issue needed a tool that would help, and bank employees, and their customers know what it looks like payment of interest on deposits from the inside. For employees, this tool will simplify the work on the modelling of new types of deposits, as customers, this service will help you understand exactly how the account is maintained percent.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Users are often faced with the problem of the transparency of the settlement of accounts and deposits, and are not able to verify the algorithm calculation and counting rules for commercial interest formulas. However, and there is a need for banks modeling of various deposits, which are on the market quite a large number.
Relevance of the chosen topic due to the fact that the market of banking services, including deposits and savings issues arise not only bankers, but also consumers. To resolve this issue needed a tool that would help, and bank employees, and their customers know what it looks like payment of interest on deposits from the inside. For employees, this tool will simplify the work on the modeling of new types of deposits, and customers will help you understand exactly how the account is maintained percent.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
Our work aims to contribute to a better understanding of the process of calculating interest on bank deposits. Web services provide a detailed understanding of the conditions of the interest calculation and the different parties in the modeling of bank deposits. The work comprises two inter-related sets of tasks. The first set relates to the observation part and the second set to the implementation part of the work. The major duties posed for the analysis of literature and scientific articles in the field of banking by the formulas of complex and simple interest. The implementation part tasks of developing a business model of banking services and web design services with multimedia elements (tables, pictures, flow charts, formulas).
METHODS 
The work will be used by the scientific and technical approach to solving problems. Firstly, the subject investigated problems will obviously be determined based on the analyzed scientific literature. Second, recursive methods used to solve business problems will be analyzed. Based on the analysis of the literature on recursive calculations will be developed business process model of service for the calculation of bank deposits and deposits.
The use of recursive algorithms will be clearly shown in the formulas. Further, for each type of deposit are applied corresponding formula. After that will be a measurement of various parameters such as time, amount of code and the amount of memory used by the application.
The aim of the study is to develop a web service for the calculation of interest. Based on the business process model will be developed by a service that allows you to see the accrual of interest on the deposit within.
PREDICTED RESULTS
The analysis of the literature in this area, we obtain a basis for developing a full model of the web service for the banking sector. Based on the data and model the business process the application that can later be integrated with any of the Bank's website. This application will help bank customers to know the specifics of calculating interest, and the bank's employees will help to attract new customers, because the application will simplify the creation of new deposits and the introduction of data into a single database of the bank.
Nevertheless, the web service can be used also for educational purposes. For example, students can use it to analyze the business process for the calculation of bank interest rates in order to obtain statistics. These statistics help business analysts to build similar model calculations.
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The work makes an important contribution to the Bank's business processes and in the educational process in the banking and analysis area. Nevertheless, the results should be considered in the light of some limitations. First, we only compare unique web systems that are in the public domain. Access to the actually existing systems of the bank is closed.
Secondly, we analyzed only a few formulas to calculate interest on deposits and deposits in mind that when using a limited number of investments. These types of deposits occur most frequently.
Third, analysis of the types of deposits was made based on the banks of Perm. The work of this magnitude is not relevant to do an analysis of all banks in Russia, as it will take a lot of time and other resources.
CONCLUSION
Work brings both practical significance and research. To develop a web-service interest payments can be used as a bank employee, for example, for the construction of a contribution, as a client of the bank, in order to be able to clearly see the whole process of calculating interest on the deposit "from within". 
After all, this service should include a graphical representation of commercial formulas, graphs calculated interest and the structure of deposits. In addition, it can be applied to students' goals: clearly see how the deposits are formed as calculated interest, which formulas are used for this purpose and which methods are used in a bank for payment. The research purposes developed web-service can be used in the construction of bank deposits.
