INTRODUCTON
The topic of this research is the application of the genetic algorithms to the field of cryptanalysis. If this application is proved to be successful, it can lead to faster, automated messages’ encryption.
The main subject of this study is the genetic algorithms (or GA). They are used in various areas, with different results. GA are perfect for optimization, which is why they are thought to be useful in cryptanalysis. Applying GA to simple ciphers we can determine whether they can improve the way of encrypting private messages or not. Few works exist on this topic; therefore a proper study is needed. We need to know if we can successfully use GA in cryptanalysis, what ciphers can be improved with this method and what are the possible applications of GA-based encryption system.
We had a course about the genetic algorithms in our university. That is where the interest in this topic came from. However, the GA is just a method of finding a solution to the problem, there is nothing in it about the problem itself. What could that problem be? It must be something relevant, up to date and connected to other courses we had, so as much knowledge as possible could be demonstrated. The answer was quite simple – cryptography. Is there a validity in using GA in this field? This is what this paper is trying to determine among other things.
The predictions are that the method will be proved successful, but not as advantageous as the traditional ways of encrypting. This does not mean that the study has no meaning. Different algorithms are used in different areas. Without a doubt, there are areas, where the proposed method will have more advantages, like companies’ or governments’ inside communications.
There are several good ciphers available on the Internet. Most, however, rely on word frequency and dictionary matching to find their solutions. Such encryption systems are outdated and are easily overcame. Those that are not considered to be substitution ciphers vary greatly. An ideal encryption system does not exist and it will never come to be. This is based on the fact that the computers’ powers grow everyday and cracking the code becomes easier.
The GA-based ciphers have been attempted before as well. For example, A.Kumar described such algorithm in 2004 in his study “Application of Genetic Algorithm in the Field of Steganography”. He used the concept of mutation to encrypt an image using the genetic algorithm. Overall, his concept was very successful and his method of encrypting images has become a great alternative to the traditional ways.
Another example is A. Tragha and his research called “CIGA: Improved Cryptography Inspired by Genetic Algorithms”, which was published in 2006. He described an encryption system, which generated a unique session key at random. The user can only choose the key length, which improves the security. The message is divided into blocks, and each block is ciphered by the same key.
Genetic algorithms were also used in so-called Knapsack Cipher by R. Spillman. It was inspired by the back bag problem. Although the method itself was very well designed, the GA were proved insufficient in asymmetric ciphering.
This study will apply GA to the symmetric based cipher called the Cardan grille.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
This project addresses the problem of applying GA to the cryptographic mechanisms and making a software product to test the efficiency. The ideal scenario is that the code will be very hard to break, using modern technologies of code breaking. However, taking into consideration the abilities of nowadays computers and the fact that for this paper we applied GA to the simple cipher, this goal is practically impossible to achieve. It must be noted, that we do not aim for creation of a perfect encryption system. Our purpose is simply finding out whether the GA can be successfully applied to the area of cryptanalysis. This is a very realistic goal, and the solution presented in this paper can benefit the cryptography in general. 
PREDICTED RESULTS/FINDINGS
We expect to develop a software product, which uses the GA as a method of finding the cipher key in an encryption system. 
