Introduction
Background. Nowadays, more and more different sensors, detectors and control devices are being introduced into houses and apartments: bulbs with a motion sensor, meters with automatic sending of readings, speakers with a voice assistant and much more. They help save time, effort, energy, sometimes money, increase comfort and improve living standards. Many of these solutions are spotted, complex systems with many integrated devices are very rare.
One of the areas of automation is climate control, which directly affects the
comfort of being in a room. The climate is influenced by such factors as humidity, CO2
concentration, temperature, which in turn is influenced by the outside temperature,
heater temperature, the strength of an air conditioner, etc.
       Many sensors are controlled and adjusted manually, which increases the time
spent on interaction with them, for this purpose, such instrument systems are automated
and aggregate all sensors in a single place, for more comfortable access to all devices.
The Internet of Things concept is used to communicate with the instruments.
       Problem Statement. In order for a person to feel comfortable coming into or
being in a room, it is necessary to predict the arrival of a person or changes in factors
affecting the climate. These problems can be solved by creating a prediction module
with the ability to integrate with intelligent climate control devices.
Aim and Objectives. The aim of the coursework is to create a prediction module for indoor climate control. Practical importance is to develop an easily integrated predictive control module.
The object of this work is a system of intelligent things. The subject of research is the module of predictive control based on the Internet of things.
To achieve this goal, it is necessary to solve the following problems:
1. To carry out the analysis of the subject area:
a) To analyze the variants of climate control devices control presented on the market;
b) To develop the terms of reference (ToR) for the module under development;
2. Carry out the system design in accordance with the developed ToR:
a) Select the technologies to be developed;
b) Develop an algorithm for climate change prediction;
c) Carry out the module architecture design;
d) Carry out the design of the deployment;
3. Implement the system:
a) Implement the prediction algorithm;
b) to implement the module;
c) to test the system in accordance with the TOR;
d) to deploy the developed module on the equipment of the university;
e) carry out system testing on real users.
The following research methods are expected to be used in the process of solving the set tasks: interview with the scientific supervisor, formalization of requirements, study of new technologies, step-by-step design method, object-oriented design methods, object-oriented programming methods.
Literature Review
To achieve the goals of this work, it is necessary to analyze the available research on this topic. It is important to consider existing models and concepts for climate control systems.
Maintaining the right indoor climate depends largely on a properly designed climate control model. This problem is raised in the study “Model Predictive Climate Control of Connected and Automated Vehicles for Improved Energy Efficiency” by Hao Wang, Ilya Kolmanovsky, Mohammad Reza Amini and Jing Sun. Although this paper looks at the predictive steering model in an automotive air conditioning system (A/C), it can also help in predicting indoor climate control. This article also gives us information on how the energy efficiency of the predictive climate control module under design can be improved.
For the user who will use the module under design, it is very important that the resulting component can maintain a comfortable temperature. Ali Youssef, Nicolás Caballero and Jean-Marie Aerts are trying to solve this in their work entitled "Model- Based Monitoring of Occupant's Thermal State for Adaptive HVAC Predictive Controlling". As a result of this work, a dynamic system based on the user's thermal condition monitoring model is being created, which can also help in designing the module being created.
The    paper   "Challenges    to   IoT-enabled    Predictive   Maintenance     for Industry 4.0", written by Michele Compare, Piero Baraldi, and Enrico Zio, discusses the predictive maintenance (PdM) model for the manufacturing industry. PdM relies heavily on the Internet of Things concept, which allows the correct digitization of data from a machine. This work shows that the PdM predictive model can be used to create room service systems, so it can be applied to the current work.
Consideration of the IoT concept is very important for the design of the module being created. This model is also discussed in paper Sergio Silva and Antonio Ruano "The IMBPC HVAC system: Wireless Sensors and IoT Platform". In addition, this paper deals with the issue of energy saving by the proposed method of HVAC control.
Also Antonio Ruano, Sergio Silva, Helder Duarte and Pedro M. Ferreira is
developing the platform based on the IoT model in its work "Wireless Sensors and IoT Platform for Intelligent HVAC Control". This paper describes the design and construction of a climate control model and tests the two components of this integrated system. It is very important that the model is designed to save energy in addition to correct  peration. As a result of this study, energy savings were achieved while
maintaining the thermal comfort of the users over an extended period of time.
In the work "IoT for the Users: Thermal Comfort and Cost Saving" [6], written by Claudio Marche and Michele Nitti, the question of combining comfort temperature in the room with energy savings is raised. The system is also designed on the paradigm of the Social Internet of Things to complement the real world objects with a virtual analog. As a result of this work, a system was obtained which is capable of learning the habits of users and taking into account their wishes.
For correct work of the module it is necessary not only to maintain an optimal temperature for people, but also to predict it in the future. This issue is considered in the study "Temperature Trend Predictive IoT Sensor Design for Precise Industrial Automation" by Vadim Li and Vinayagam Mariappan. This study also discusses the use of MatLab data analysis software, which provides an accurate prediction of expected
temperature, which helps improve the use of an IoT system.
An important part of climate control is air conditioning and ventilation. These technologies are discussed in the work of Raffaele Carli, Graziana Cavone, Sarah Ben Othman and Mariagrazia Dotoli "IoT Based Architecture for Model Predictive Control of HVAC Systems in Smart Buildings". In this paper, IoT-based architecture is designed to implement a predictive control model. This study also discusses how to implement a module control mode with feedback, thermal comfort in the room, and the
corresponding power consumption for the system. Based on the results of this study, the architecture allows to maintain the comfort in a room despite the presence of various disturbances (e.g. doors, windows and changing number of users).
Often, Model-based predictive control (MPC) is used for climate control modules like in "Model-based predictive control of an HVAC system"[9] written by Tamas Kardos and Denes Nimrod Kutasi. This article presents the application of two algorithms for predictive control of modules using MPC in an office building cooling system. This paper describes two algorithms: simple MPC and adaptive MPC algorithm. The authors of this article also prove why the classical MPC method is not suitable for this design of a cooling system and why it is necessary to design an adaptive MPC together with a linear model evaluator.
One of the globally used standards for user comfort temperature assessment is Predictive Mean Vote (PMV). However, this model is based on experimental indoor data without regard to outdoor conditions. Lei Hang and Do-Hyeun Kim address this issue in their article "Enhanced Model-Based Predictive Control System Based on Fuzzy Logic for Maintaining Thermal Comfort in IoT Smart Space". The model that was designed in this paper takes into account both PMV index and environmental conditions.
The results of the study help to optimize the comfortable thermal condition for users depending on the season, which makes the resulting model more efficient.
As a result of the research review, enough information can be obtained to design an efficient module for a climate control system. It is possible to trace the change in the use of the IoT concept, which makes it possible to assess its advantages and disadvantages. Also with the help of the studied literature it is possible to get information on how to design the most comfortable and economical module from the user's point of view.
Methods
The following methods will be used to solve the tasks:
Several well-known and popular indoor climate control systems will be analysed, especially those with predictive control modules. The pros and cons of these systems will be reviewed, strengths identified and based on them developed
After analyzing the existing solutions, it is necessary to select technologies and algorithms to implement the predictive control module. It will be necessary to design the architecture of the module, develop methods to predict the activation of smart devices for climate control in the room. For this purpose, it is necessary to make a UML chart of precedents, to identify precedents (sequences of actions that can be implemented by the system, subsystem or class, interacting with external actors). Then it is necessary to design a data flow diagram (DFD) for development of manipulations with data flows. Also it is necessary to develop a component diagram for definition of interaction of the module with other objects of system.
The module will be developed on Python using autoregressive integrated moving average method that is suitable for time series data, which are gathering by various detectors and meters and storing in database. The module should support the ability to integrate into a ready-made system and use the data that the system collects from small devices and sensors, and should use scripts that are developed by a group of students in
the university.
A specially prepared set of data from sensors will be used for testing, and a simulation of the entire system will be used. Testing will also take place on university computers with real smart devices in science lab.
Results Anticipated
After analyzing the existing solutions, the corresponding requirements for the climate control module were identified. The ARIMA method was chosen as a suitable for a large time series of data and prediction of the future values of data flows. Also, Python is most convenient language to develop fast lightweight programs that are easy to integrate in Smart House application. We design the architecture of the module using UML-diagrams o further developing the climate control module. After the design stage of architecture, we need to implement the module, gather some test data and integrate this component to the whole Smart house program that uses the concept of Internet of Things.
Conclusion
This paper describes the module of predictive climate control in offices
based on the concept of the Internet of Things, examines existing solutions available on the market, highlights methods of program development. In the future, it is planned to embed this module in the Smart Home system, as well as testing on real users. The system can be improved by changing predictive algorithms or adding more realistic data for testing and debugging.
