Introduction
Background. There is a rise in the popularity of a big student organization named "Russian student squads". The organization is a Russian non-profit organization, which helps students to find summer jobs and organizes a lot of events during a whole year. Although "Russian student squads" was established and dissolved in the Soviet Union, it was recreated in Russian Federation and has been existing there for 15 years. During this time the number of its participants, which are mainly students of Russian universities, has reached more than two hundred thousand people, in the Perm Region this figure reaches about two thousand. 
Because of its size, the organization has also a large hierarchical management system with a lot of requirements and problems at each hierarchical level. Each squad has its leader who manages activities of its participants, registers new members, fills out various kinds of documentation, etc. At the regional management level of the organization, leaders have to work with a large amount of documentation and information about organization members. In addition, leaders are involved in organizing student employment in the summer, as well as organizing events for students during the whole year.
Problem Statement. At the low levels of the management system, all management activities are not currently automated. For example, all documentation is kept in a paper version. Moreover, information about organization members is saved in free software packages, such as Google spreadsheets and communication with employers takes place through social networks. Although at the higher levels of the management system CRM named "Simple Business" is used, most of its function are not appropriate for a non-profit organization and do not meet the requirements of the "Russian student squads".
Managing the activities of "Russian student squads" requires thereby many labor costs and is associated with a high probability of making mistakes. There is a high probability of losing documents because they are all kept in a paper version. Besides, keeping information in Google spreadsheets is not safe and requires a lot of time and attention to work with. Lastly, all reports and applications must be filled manually, what requires plenty of time.
A large number of problems associated with management system of "Russian student squads", which negatively affect the effectiveness of the work of its leaders at all levels of management, determines the relevance of this study.
The object of the study is the activity of leaders of the "Russian student squads".
The subject of the study is an automated workplace for leaders of the "Russian student squads".
The goal of the study is to develop an automated workplace for leaders of the "Russian student squads".
To achieve this goal, the following tasks must be completed:
1. Analyzing the subject area "Russian student squads".
2. Identifying the requirements for the automated workplace for leaders of "Russian student squads". The requirements must be based on the analysis result.
3. Designing the automated workplace for leaders of "Russian student squads", using diagrams in the UML and SADT notation. 
4. Development of the automated workplace for leaders of "Russian student squads".
5. Introduce the automated workplace for organization leaders.
Delimitation of Study. The automated workplace for leaders of "Russian student squads" will be developed as a web application to make an interaction between its users more comfortable and to provide access to the application for all its participants. The functionality will be limited by the main leader's needs and will be realized in three months. 
Professional Significance. The new system should make the managerial work in "Russian student squads" more efficient because of the reduction of labor costs and the number of mistakes, which is the result of automation of many functions leaders of the organization often do.
Literature Review
There are thousands of systems which help to coordinate the work of big organizations. That is why the development of such systems and their popular functions are already described in research literature. In the following, I report on some papers related to technological and economic aspects of my project.
Management in non-profit organizations. Obviously, the difference between non-profit and profit organizations influence their management systems. Leaders of "Third" sector organizations have other goals and other challenges than leaders of profit organizations have. Some of these challenges and other characteristics of non-profit organizations are described in.
According to, "Third" sector organizations make up about 5 percent of all organizations worldwide. Although the percentage might seem too little, the amount of active population working for non-profit organizations is about 14 percent, about two thirds of which is paid staff. Eventually, there are thousands of paid workers and millions of volunteers in non-profit organizations, so managing the work of them all is very challenging. Moreover, the authors of claim, that leaders of such organization have a power to mobilize a large network of voluntary actors from different fields to lever social capital and rescue economic activity. This is exactly the truth for Russian Student Squads, because despite the fact the organization is a non-profit organization, the main goal of it is to provide our country with young work force and to provide students with a paid work during summertime. 
There was a thoughtful exploratory research, described in, in which six specific HRM (human resource management) challenges were derived: strategic HR (human resource) planning, staffing, performance management, compensation, training, and health and safety issues. These challenges may regard not only to paid staff, but also to unpaid members of organization. For example,  to manage the work of students especially important are training and performance management. 
One more special characteristic of the management in Russian Student Squads is the fact, that its leaders on the lower levels of organizational structure can change very often: mostly, one time of a year. In addition to this, new leaders may be not experienced, so they may have not enough knowledge to lead a squad. That is why the Knowledge Management System, in other words Knowledge Continuity Management (KCM), whose implementation is described in and, is worth to pay attention to, when designing the automated Workstation for Heads of Student Squads. 
KCM is used to manage the transfer of knowledge from the former staff to successor staff to prevent the loss of knowledge when staff leaves an organization. In the case of Russian Student Squads, leaders may not leave the organization, but they stop doing their work. That is why new leaders need something like KCM.
The authors of and found out three important key outputs of implementing Knowledge Continuity Management. Firstly, areas of knowledge are identified with its complete attribute categories, because it is necessary to acquire both tacit and explicit knowledge of the staff. Furthermore, categories of knowledge must be determined for all functions and levels of the organization. Secondly, key positions in the organization are identified so they can realize their knowledge needs. At last, some frameworks are developed to manage knowledge cycle. Although the idea of and is very useful for big organizations, it is not suitable for this project, because of KCM complexity. The hierarchical system of documents, which include the most important knowledges for student squads' leaders would be more appropriate when developing a system for Russian student squads.
Approaches and tools for designing and developing web-systems. In following, I report on papers, describing existing approaches to designing and developing web-systems and justify their benefits for my project.
Model-Based designing approach. According to, nowadays the most popular and effective approach for designing a computer system is Model-Based Design (MBD). The approach is based on the construction of models, which then are used for code generating. Moreover, MBA reduces the time for coding and represents a real-world situation, what makes work for analysts and programmer easier. These advantages make MBA the ideal approach for using it in my project.
Tools for data visualizing. After the design of the automated workstation for Heads of Student Squads, the developing phase occurs. To complete all project's requirements, the most appropriate tools and programming languages must be chosen. 
One of the project's requirements is visualizing some statistic data. Existing tools for visualizing are described in and, some of these tools may be very useful for my project. For instance, in some JavaScript frameworks and libraries for visualizing data are available to read about. These are HighChart, GoJS, JSmol and others, which can accelerate the process of developing analytical charts for visualizing regional and All-Russian squad's rating.
Tools for automated document generation. One of the most important project's requirements concerns automated document generation.  and  contain information about the ways that could implemented. They propose the idea of using templates, created in Microsoft Word, with bookmarks to place important data in. Furthermore, to achieve more functionality, Visual Basic for Application in Microsoft is available to use. Realizing the idea of using templates with bookmarks and VBA should not be difficult, because it does not require a lot of special knowledges. Moreover, the idea fully meets project requirement about automated document generation. 
Tools for realizing the coordination of collective action. Leaders of organizations need to coordinate actions of their members. The bigger the organization is, the harder it becomes for leaders to manage people's activities. Not surprisingly , that almost all modern organizations use electronic calendar, the benefits of which are demonstrated in. According to, electronic calendar has two kinds of benefits: connectivity  (an increased ability to reach other members of the organization) and communality  (more information on time, location, and activities of coworkers). Moreover, collective use of the calendar is crucial to the realization of the benefits, so all members of organizations must have access to it.
Models of access limitation. The system for Russian Student Squads must consist a lot of personal data, so it needs to have a good designed access control model. Moreover, these are some management levels and leaders of different levels must have different access to information. The best way for realizing it is one of existing access control models, described in .
According to, 3 models have made great success: Discretionary Access Control (DAC), Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and Role- Based Access Control (RBAC). DAC and MAC are suitable for systems with small number of users. Unlike DAC and MAC, the RBAC model can still maintain the flexibility and security of the access control system even facing large number of users, large amount of data and large scale of business. 
The authors of describe also Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC), which depend more on the context and consider attributes of subjects and objects.
RABAC model is most appropriate for this project, because organizational structure of Russian Student Squads don't consider attributes of subject to have access to some information.
Methods
For realizing this project some research methods should be used: interviewing, comparing, analysis and modeling. After using all these methods, the new system can be developed. 
This project is connected to the specific organization with concrete workers. Because the workers are the best source of information, I use interviews with the leaders of the "Russian student squads" for getting information about management work and specific problems during this work. Before the actual process of interviewing a list of questions must be written. These questions should help to understand client needs and emphasize the important ones to work on. All results of the interview should be fixed on a piece of paper and signed to prove its authenticity. The results will be used then to reveal functional requirements.
When I know the requirements, I will research some similar existing systems and find the advantages and disadvantages of needed functions. To find the best realization of these functions I will use comparing as a method of research. For doing the comparison I need some criteria, which already exist or can be developed on my own.
The comparison method should be also used to choose the best frameworks and programming languages for realizing the system. There are a lot of existing criteria, so I do not need to develop them on my own.
All information, which I will get, should by systematized through an analysis. During the analysis phase, I should evaluate the laboriousness for realizing every needed function. I also should evaluate my opportunities and prioritize functionality. After that, I can determine the frames of the project, based on all the information received through the analysis. As a result of all previous work, I will make a list of all functional and non-functional requirements.
Based on the requirements I can build a model of a system, using a lot of facilities: I will make diagrams in UML and SADT notation, which describe all the functionality of the system.
By dint of the built model, the system can be developed using previously selected programming tools.
Anticipated results
During the work on the project, some results are expected to occur. The main result is the functioning system, which meets the needs of heads of student squads in their management work. These needs should be described in a document named "Terms of Reference", which comprises a package of documents for the system. "Terms of Reference" should be the main result of the analyzing stage of the project. Beside "Terms of References", the following documents should be created at the analyzing stage: interview protocols with heads of student squads, which should be subscribed by them; table of comparison some existing systems, which are alike to the developing system. 
At the designing stage, a lot of different models should be built in UML and SADT notation: use case diagram, activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, component diagram, IDEF0. When all the listed diagrams will be built, the designing stage ends and the developing one occurs. During the developing stage, a lot of files with code in different programming languages should be created. These are the additional result of the developing stage.
The new systems should also have a user's manual and an admin guide, which are considered to be created after the developing stage.
When the system is introduced and implemented, the document of implementation should also be written.
Conclusion
The system is expected to be implemented in a work process of leaders of student squads. The system should speed up processes of creating documentation, organizing events, working with organization members, etc. Moreover, applying the system should cause a reduction in costs and mistakes during the managerial work. 
In the future, the system can be improved by adding new functionality. The need for new functionality can be identified in the process of applying the system. Moreover, the system can be distributed in the other regions in Russia, where a branch of "Russian student squads" is situated. 
The experience of creating the system can be used in other similar projects, where the goal is to automate the work of any organization or any business processes.
