INTRODUCTON
In modern business environment, like many years before, the most important aspect remains the same: it is about making profit. As much as business has advanced throughout decades, the motivational point of most existing organizations is accumulating as much money as possible. 
While there are exceptions to this rule, there are hardly any exceptions to a different law of modern business that applies to any organization that desires to achieve its goals – it is being efficient and able to make the most of the disposable resources at the lowest cost possible. 
More and more companies nowadays focus on improving their existing processes instead of expanding the production capacities. The ability to freely browse through the company’s business-processes troubleshoot them and make necessary changes in order to quickly adapt to a constantly changing environment is highly appreciated for it provides confidence and maneuverability. Ceteris paribus, quality becomes a lot more important than quantity.
There are many ways to implement a monitoring system. There are ways to determine the key parameters of processes that affect its performance, measure them and compare to the ideal values. There are not, however, too many implementations of a technology that can do the mentioned above and provide comprehensive diagnosis for the people that make important decisions.
One way to achieve this king of integrity is to utilize multiple techniques at once. This research focuses specifically on employing Process Mining in conjunction with system log data to identify the weak spots of processes.
The goal of this research is to study the tools for data collection and analysis from the point of possible incorporation of those to work with business-processes. In order to achieve this goal, a few tasks need to be solved and they are as follows:
* Analyze data sources.
* Study the methods of data logging in operational systems.
* Study the instruments of Process Mining.
* Study the ways to specifically format log data in order to apply Process Mining to it.
* Study existing solutions to similar problems.
* Create a practical implementation of a full optimization cycle for a given business-process.
* Conclude whether it is profitable to use the similar systems in companies of different scales.
The research is divided into two parts, the first one focuses mainly on theoretical aspects of the employed techniques and the second describes a practical implementation of the acquired knowledge and gives a final conclusion to the question stated as the goal of the study: is the chosen method of process analysis effective when applied to business-processes.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Every company should take proper care of its business-processes. This is essential due to the very reason commercial companies exist: a well-organized business-process gives competitive advantage, whereas a poorly-organized one can slow the company down or even render it uncompetitive and therefore unable to pursue its main goal of making profits. Ideally, business-processes should well-observed and regularly checked for the need of optimization. Due to changing environment changes might have to be introduced rather frequently.
In reality, most companies only worry about optimizing their business-processes when the problem it really obvious. This kind of attitude doesn’t let companies get the most of their resources and puts it at additional risks. Those companies want to focus on their primary objective and most of them do not see the advantage in the kind of investment such as monitoring and early problem detection systems. Many of these systems normally cost a fortune because they come with expensive ERP or MRP solutions, which most smaller companies can’t afford. However, it is as important for small companies to always be up to date with their business-processes as it is for large corporations, because ignoring this problem on any scale might cause a general economic decline due to the fact that small companies participate in forming the country’s GDP.    
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The aim of the research is to determine whether Process Mining methods applied to system log data can prove effective to find the weak spots of the process and create a frame for cohesive output on the process’s status.
The main objective of this research is to attempt to create an analytical system for business-process that would employ Process Mining, based which one would feed with data collected from systems logs, and expect concise report on the process’s effectiveness ratio as output. 
This main objective requires several additional objectives to be fulfilled.  These objectives are mostly related to thoroughly studying the technologies employed, for it is highly unlikely to create a noteworthy system without deep understanding of what makes the concept of the said system. 
METHODS\APPROACHES\PROCEDURES 
The research employs both data collection and data analysis, each with its appropriate technique. The two methods are combined together to create an output that could be utilized for future analysis or general decision-making.
In this academic piece, data collection is implemented through the use of the output of the system logs, which are commonly known as Event Logs, which represent a built-in function of operating systems to record its users’ activity. That data contains information about each operation made by user and of every change in the system’s parameters or components. 
The second part of the methodology is analyzing the acquired data. For this task, a set of advanced analytical techniques called Process Mining was used. Apart from simple data structuring and problem detection, this technology allows building analytical models to extend the process’s capabilities in order to achieve the maximum sensible effectiveness considering available resources at the company’s disposal. 
PREDICTED RESULTS/FINDINGS
Firstly, the main result expected from the research is the answer to the question of whether the described method of analyzing processes is effective to use in conjunction with data collected from system logs. This result is expected to be concluded after creating and testing a prototype analytical system on a real process and investigating the data provided by the system.
Secondly, an additional result is a report on Process Mining and its use in business, described as theoretical background for the research, along with a report on system logs and how they their output can be formalized and used in conjunction with different analytical techniques to achieve practical goals.     
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
Due to the nature of the methods used, the present research has a set of limitations. First of all, interaction with system logging is done on an example of a single operation system family – the Microsoft NT series. This family is chosen due to its high level of popularity in the local community and the simple availability to its log files.
Second of all, Process Mining is a very complex technique whose abilities extend far beyond the scope of this academic piece, therefore a decision was made to only study Process Mining from the point of applying it to achieve the paper’s aims. The same goes for Process Mining’s main implementation that is used in the practical section of the research – ProM. Because ProM is a large multitasking tool that requires skill to be used effectively, the research only covers parts of it that suit the declared purpose.
Lastly, because the aim of the research is to test a thesis and determine its effectiveness, at this point it is not the paper’s objective to create an application or a ProM configuration that could be used in the field of business. Achieving this aim would take additional study and a more advanced implementation.
CONCLUSION
The research paper was conceived as a mean of achieving the goal of determining the effectiveness of a particular thesis of combining certain techniques of data collection and data analysis in an attempt of creating a practical and affordable solution to troubleshoot and modernize business-processes. 
All of the tasks assigned for the research paper were fulfilled and the primary aim was achieved. Also, reports on both specified sets of techniques, system logging and Process Mining, were created thus fulfilling the paper’s secondary aim.
The results of this research could be used further to create a full-scale powerful analytical tool that would bear the same technical principle and would allow for a fully operational commercial use.
