INTRODUCTON
The given study is focused on design and development of the program for signal cycle groups’ number minimization on complex traffic signal-controlled intersections. Signal phases play the significant role as long as its operation sets up succinct rules of passing crossroads. The modeling of traffic lights has been an issue for many cities around the world. However, the appliance of modeling methods can solve this problem. 
There are many modeling tools adopted by the majority of researchers to build an intersection scheme. The most commonly used are simulation and mathematical models. The second ones provides methods for creating the formal algorithm of the road topology construction. The theory of graphs, which is a subfield of mathematics, is the most relevant tool of modeling an intersection since it gives clear the presentation of traffic lanes and their compatibility. Moreover, the graph structure can be easily implemented in the program code. Thus, our goal is to build a model for traffic scheme representation and to create a program based on the graph.
My personal motivation in signal phases planning arises from current situation on the roads not only in national capitals, but also in our city, where the number of cars stuck in traffic jams increases every year. Despite this, in Perm the traffic signal cycles are arranged manually. Such an evidence as well as the use of public transport and the necessity of roads passage made me interested in the question of the intersection efficiency, which can be enhanced by the combination of mathematics and programming.
In this study, we will develop our model in conformity to traffic laws, which regulate flows and cannot be violated. According to these rules, the traffic control can be realized by a signal group, which is a set of traffic streams controlled by identical traffic signal indications (red, green and yellow indicators).
Today the topic of traffic control based on the graph theory is not fully investigated and some aspects still need to be addressed. The existing studies cover the model construction only from a theoretical point of view. Zafar highlights the creation of an automated formal procedure of managing traffic flows. As a base of this procedure, a graph structure to model surface topology and automates as a foundation of language for describing procedure rules was suggested to use. The author proposes that the advantage of presented methods is the high level of model abstraction, which can be a basis for the future work. The other research, conducted by Pasagic, Mikulcic and Marijan, is dedicated to the issue of traffic flows distribution at a signal-controlled intersection. They present a method for signal cycle optimization using graphs. Unlike the previous researchers, Batanovi?, Guberini?, and Petrovi?  not only determine the complete set of signal groups, but also describe a graph-coloring method for minimizing the number of signals.
Solving the problem regarding the selection of the optimal traffic signal organization at an intersection is a reasonably task, which requires a lot of exploratory work. Its resolution will afford to rearrange traffic schema in order to increase road capacity and reduce the time difference between factual travel time and free-flow travel time. This explains why the optimization of signal phasing by the appliance of the computer science should be investigated. 
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Traffic lights have served as the primary means of managing vehicle flows on intersections for many years. Its functioning is aimed at providing an easy passage without stopped time delays for every traffic participant. Signalized intersection is also supposed to contribute safety for both passengers and pedestrians. 
However, current situation on the road in the world’s largest cities represented by the severe congestion shows the inefficiency of existent traffic signal control. The base model for operation of a system for managing stream distribution on every type of intersections is rather unable to build the traffic signal cycle accurately.
Without effective traffic management procedures, the queuing on the roads is likely to continue rising. In response to this problem, our study proposes to design the program for signal cycle groups’ number minimization. A backbone of our research is a mathematical model in graph theory for constructing traffic schema, i.e., traffic flows, their conflictness, compatibility or incompatibility. The program functioning should be organized according to the traffic rules. We will also determine an algorithm of input data conversion in order to create program data structures. The number of roads and directions of its lanes will be entered as inputs and the signal cycle description will be displayed as the output result. 
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The main purpose of the research is to develop the program for finding a minimal number of signal groups on an intersection. This above goal raises core research objectives. The first is to evaluate current practices within the field of the domain area and choose the most appropriate one. Further, we have to set requirements to the program based on the analysis of existing traffic regulation systems. As far as they are established, the design of the mathematical model can be created which is a foundation for the program realization. Finally, the stage of testing program on real data should be done.
The result of this study will be valuable to the city governments as well as road construction contractors in designing new intersections with traffic lights schema and assessing real ones. 
METHODS 
This section introduces a methodology to be used for developing the program for signal phases’ optimization, which will be divided into three main stages: creation of the transportation mathematical model, construction of the programming solution and analysis of the system performance. 
In this study, the main method to be used is mathematical modeling. Mathematical models in traffic management represent the implementation of quantitative methods for solving complex problems. The task of these methods is to provide the decision makers with the possibility of setting technical solutions and organizational decisions based on the scientific approaches.
Firstly, the subject area should be formalized, i.e., the method of abstract model construction should be applied. The features that are under our research are the road width, capacity, number of lanes within one direction of the road, time of the day, etc. Although such factors as the number of lanes on intersection, its directions and the type of a particular lane (one-way or two-way road) will be estimated. 
The graph theory can be used for creating a model due to its simplicity, clarity and scalability. The graph structure will be defined as a set of nodes and edges, where nodes are all the possible streams movements. These movements are created according to the next rule: if a vehicle can pass from one route to another, the graph will contain the corresponding vertex. The other element is edges, which connect the compatible nodes. They are set up in accordance with the following statement: if two streams cannot simultaneously get the right-of-way, the corresponding vertices will have a connecting arc. 
The preceding rules are necessary to define by the predicates. Its logic is supposed to describe expressions, which consist of variables, propositional functions and quantifiers. In traffic regulations, variables are the lanes of the given intersection and functions are the rules for building the graph vertices and arcs. According to this concept, the rules of graph construction can be strictly formulated, effortlessly implemented and tested in the program solution. On this base, we will also create an incidence matrix for mapping the graph. 
The next stage is the graph processing. For this purpose, a procedure for finding the minimum signal groups’ number will be defined. In this case, it is reasonably to use graph coloring, which supposes assignment of colors to the nodes of the graph so that two adjacent nodes have different colors. At the same moment, the number of used colors should be as small as possible. 
The problem of graph coloring belongs to the class of NP-complete tasks, which solution does not accompanied by a determinate, fast and efficient algorithm. To solve this problem all the possible solutions should be checked in order to get the best one. For this reason, we can use approximate algorithms, which does not assure using the minimal number of colors, but it guarantees to obtain its upper bound. 
Graph coloring is commonly provided by the implementation of the greedy algorithm. Its operation considers the graph vertices in sequence and assigns each node its first available color. The approach gives a list of transitions, assigned to a particular label.
Once a mathematical model and its functioning will be established, its logic should be represented in the program. Firstly, the .Net Windows application will be created. The graph data structure will be described with the use of Quick Graph library. This add-in component provides the basic data structures to represent graph elements and contains the generic implementation of various algorithms such as the Dijkstra shortest path, minimum spanning tree, etc. 
The described predicates can be defined with the use of Regular Expressions engine. The appliance of this tool allows creating and checking expressions, in this research – rules of graph construction. After that, the graph coloring procedure will be converted into the programming language. 
As it was outlined earlier, the greedy algorithm does not present the most optimal solution; its output is influenced by the numeration of the vertices. Due to this, an improvement of its performance is mandatory. One of the conceivable variants is changing the enumeration of the traffic lanes and keeping these results. As an output the minimal number among obtained from alternative algorithm operations will be chosen.
The next stage is the process of encoding input data into program variables, which will consist of the following steps. Initially, the number of roads will be derived. Then, the code of every particular route is needed to be read. These characteristics can take on exactly three values: ‘0’ is for two-way route, ‘1’ is for one-way traffic in direction to the crossroad and ‘2’ is for one-way traffic in direction from the crossroad. To display results the list of colored graph nodes must be examined. The resulted set will represent the signal scheme for one traffic lights cycle that is the traffic indicators for every movements from one route to another.    
The next section after graph modeling and its implementation is the program performance verification. For this reason, the testing on the data of real intersection signal arrangements has to be accomplished. The outcome of such a comparative analysis is an error between real signal numbers and the program results. 
PREDICTED RESULTS
As it is anticipated, the given study will result in the program that proposes an optimal signal cycle phasing. Accordingly, the mathematical model within the graph theory will be developed. This structure should give an opportunity for defining every possible crossroad in order to improve scalability of the whole algorithm. The fundamental part of the research also will include the detection of traffic transit rules and its conversion into formal language with the usage of predicates. The logic of graph model should be created in conformity to object-oriented programming principles. 
The program will be designed as a desktop application with an intelligible design that will be clear for all potential users, which would not require special skills and knowledge of discrete math or traffic management. The output of its work is traffic movements corresponding to one of the signal indicators. 
Along with the model and program development, the analysis of the program outcomes will be carried out. The results that indicates the traffic lights scheme are needed to be measured. Consequently, the real intersection schemes should be evaluated. These measurements will be taken for the calculation of correlation between these two values. The obtained value is expected to be under the zero that implies that the program can be characterized as capable of traffic lights cycle projecting. Otherwise, the mathematical model and its functioning should be revised. 
Overall, the efficiency of graph theory application in the field of traffic modeling should be confirmed. The problem of signal phasing design is acute today and requires investigations in this field, which explains the necessity of developing the general-purpose algorithms. Our study is assumed to contribute the traffic flows management facilitation and the safety on the junctions. 
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The issue of traffic control is known as a wide scope for study ranging from primary questions concerning intersection arrangement to complex traffic flows simulation models projection. In this research, the focus is on signal phasing optimization since it can be regarded as one of the fundamental traffic management subfields. The exploration of traffic lights can be performed with the use of diverse approaches that expands the subject area a lot. Although, our work is dedicated to one particular method in terms of graph theory in order to get concise results within the time allotted to a graduate research paper. 
Accordingly, a huge number of characteristics can be scrutinized. This research does not provide an observation of following parameters: the road capacity during the day, the number of lanes on the route, weather conditions and so on. Our task is to get a signal scheme based on accounting such features as the quantity of the crossing roads and their type. The prescribed limitation is obligatory because of the inability to cover all these characteristics at the given time.
CONCLUSION
Signal control as a part of vehicle flows management has become a crucial matter for every modern city. Insufficient operation of traffic lights can be a cause of traffic jams and incidents, especially in rush hours. Many studies in reference to this dispute have been carried out, which generally rely on the mathematical tools. However, the lack of instruments to design intersection properly illustrates the fact that there is still a large space for investigations, where the combination of various techniques should be applied. 
This research will propose a relatively advanced approach for signal control optimization, in which the graph theory, formal language and computer science methods are integrated. The implementation of discrete mathematics logic supply the research with strictly defined rules of how data structures can be built and employed. This logic then will be defined as the system classes and libraries that present a foundation of program functioning. 
The developed application will be capable of getting input information and its conversion into graph vertices and edges. On the base of the program methods and procedures, this data will be used for the graph building and coloring. The output of the program will define a cycle with a minimal number of s traffic signal indications.
With the purpose of exploring a performance of the implemented model, a set of tests will be carried out to examine how the value, obtained by the program utilization is differ from the real intersection scheme. The overall results of this research should demonstrate that the graph model is a decent tool for signal cycle optimization.  
The designed program can become an instrument for city managers and companies, which specialize in the construction of the roads. Nevertheless, our program cannot be applicable in case, when the traffic management is highly influenced by the degree of flow saturation or by the time of the day. Though these characteristics are not measurable in this research, they can be included in further studies.
