INTRODUCTON
The main topic of this research paper is development of strategy for Web-Analytic tools implementation in “Dodo Parma”. 
Is it easy to work with such kind of business as fast food caf? without support of information technologies? Maybe. And if this is a chain of fast food restaurants located in different cities and even countries? Fast food chain “Dodo Pizza” uses offered opportunities by the Internet to combine new technologies with usual offline business practices. 
E-business - is a rapidly developing field of activity, and this is the main reason, I decided to explore that problem last year, and still working with it. Can we use data to determine how to improve the customer experience on our web sites, how to invest our resources, and how to improve our return on investment? These questions would be considered in this investigation.
It is very important to have efficient workflow for creating a successful business. However, nowadays we have very small amount of literature on analytical tools and standards for defining workflow and measuring workflow efficiency. Bradley J. Erickson, Christopher Meenan and Steve Langer explored these conceptions in their article “Standards for Business Analytics and Departmental Workflow” published in October, 2012. 
Also, we can notice lack of efficient Web-based visual analytics system in such sphere as real estate, which usually has huge amount of data. Such system was created and supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China and Provincial Natural Science Foundation. Their results were described in article “A Web-based visual analytics system for real estate data” written in February, 2013.  
 “We live in the most data-rich environment on the planet—an environment where numbers, data, math, and analysis should be the foundation of our decisions.” – says Avinash Kaushik, author of book ‘Web Analytics 2.0’. 
We have access to multiple data sources (quantitative, qualitative, and competitive). Also, we have access to an abundance of free tools that we can use to ensure our web decisions, from the tactical to the strategic, informed by data. Those decisions may range from what content should go on which page, to how to purchase the right set of keywords for our search marketing campaigns, how to find the audience with the perfect demographic and psychographic profile for our business, how to delight visitors when they get to our website.
Consideration of these problems in general, and special information system in particular case in my research paper are very useful, because possibilities of using internet technologies are increasing every year. This means that we can engage our old business, and create a new one easily and effectively, in case of having skills to work with analytic business applications.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
As many investigators say, people do not use all possibilities for searching and attracting customers with Web-analytics tools. Main advantage of using web-analytics is creation of a site, which suits to client needs and requests. First of all, it will increase the amount of visitors. Then, it will help to identify most effective marketing communications and forecast wishes of visitors and their behavior.
Dodo Pizza creates an information system that organizes the whole process in order to make it more efficient. Tablets in the kitchen, customer and deliverymen smartphones and office computers are connected into one single network through the Internet, which enabled the business processes to be managed in the real time mode. Moreover, it is very simple and flexible system, because it is operates as a cloud service. Basically, Dodo Information System is a website which any device with internet could be connected. 
Also, Dodo Pizza has its own site, where clients can make their order for delivery of pizza. You can watch how your pizza was cooked through web-cameras on a kitchen.
However, these technologies couldn’t attract clients without any external systems. For this reason, it was made decision to use some analytic tools to improve website traffic. In addition, it must be said that this sphere of promotion is not explored enough, because analytic tools are new and unexplored subjects nowadays.
We have access to a big variety of free tools that we can use to ensure our web decisions, from the tactical to the strategic, are informed by data. Those decisions may range from what content should go on which page, to how to purchase the right set of keywords for our search marketing campaigns, and how to find the audience with the perfect demographic and psychographic profile for our business, to how to delight visitors when they get to our website. So, consideration of using web-analytic tools in this research paper might be very useful, because possibilities of using internet technologies are increasing every year. This means that we can engage our old business, and create a new one easily and effectively, in case of having skills to work with analytic business applications.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
Main problem of this research paper is lack of Strategy for Web-analytic Tools Implementation, which should be created. To achieve this goal it is necessary to analyze various data sources on the subject in question and describe the business processes in the company Dodo Pizza. Also, work of site dodopizza.ru must be analyzed to understand which tools are worth using. After that we should explore the various web-analytics tools, such as google analytics, yandex metrix, etc. Finally, a strategy for Web-analytic Tools Implementation of the site dodopizza.ru must be developed.
METHODS
The main source of information, which we might need during creation of business processes of Dodo Pizza Company, might be found with the help of Dodo Information System. At this stage will be used IDEF0 Diagrams. Method of describing business process IDEF0 is one of the most convenient standards for the analysis of business processes on the upper level.
Next step is exploring of web-site dodopizza.ru. There would be considered principles and basic concepts of online business and found out the most effective ways to attract new customers to the site from external sources. This part of work will be done with using of science literature and newest articles of investigators.
After that, different web-analytics tools, such as Google analytics, Yandex metrix and others must be explored and picked the most suitable services. Based on the shortcomings which we have at this point in the system, we need to build a strategy for Web-analytic Tools Implementation, to achieve the most efficient work of the whole site.
PREDICTED RESULTS
During the research, business-processes for Dodo Pizza Company were built. Results of this part helped us to understand which weak spots has Dodo IS, and make some improvements based on that. 
Also, it was made some conclusions after analyzing site traffic of company. Due to this, were made strategy for implementing Web-analytic tools and after that was made one more check, which proved its effectiveness.   
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
Time constraints of the semester require more time than may be ideal for an research work. 
CONCLUSION
While working with research we investigated the existing methods of internet marketing and its impact on business. There was also developed a strategy for business promotion on the Internet. For this purpose were used the main channels of internet marketing, such as Web-analytic tools. Also, there were built business processes of Dodo Pizza Company promotion using notation IDEF0. On the basis of a common strategy has been drawn up a strategy for the promotion of the company "Dodo Parma."
