Introduction
Business games represent a situation modeling according to a certain scenario by means of which it is possible to test the level the user knowledge. In business computer games regularly there is a requirement to carry out dialogue with the player under control of the person. In this way it is desirable to avoid any help from the system. The initiative entirely has to belong to the player. Screen forms contain too many helps therefore the suitable decision presents dialogue in a natural language in the exchange form of text remarks by analogy with Elisa system. The Elisa system was created in the mid-sixties and was able to conduct the intelligent dialogue imitating a session of the psychoanalyst.
Recent studies highlight the importance of personality for improving human-machine interaction. There are some actual works about chatterbots. M. Mauldin was the first scientist who named virtual agents as Chatterbots. O.V. Deryugina told us about different agents and their limitations. Chatterbot as a program has differences in their specifications. For instance, psychology, sociology. Also chatterbots are used for education or for amusement. 
Another four authors are A. Galvao, F. Brown, A. Novels and G. Ramolho. They used the Persona-AIML Architecture for adding personality to chatterbot. It is the most important recent study in computer science. They also established 5 elements which virtual assistant needs to include for being more realistic: traits, attitudes, mood, emotions and physical states. Their article describes the process of adding “realistic” behavior to existing solutions. 
There are two chatterbots, which was written as pair doctor-patient. PARRY was written in 1972 by psychiatrist Kenneth Colby, then at Stanford University. While ELIZA was a tongue-in-cheek simulation of a Rogerian therapist, PARRY attempted to simulate a paranoid schizophrenic. ELIZA met PARRY twice. They might not have passed the Turing Test, but they won the battle for wackiness. V. Cerf wrote the article about this meeting. 
Problem Statement
The software engineers’ educational process includes a business game on training in the process of expansion of software products. It is considered that there is a software product which the college team has to deploy in firm of the customer. The firm has some divisions dispersed in the different cities, having different staff, a different hardware, etc. Students is given the software product description and the indistinct firm description. Students have to collect information necessary for expansion process, to make the plan of expansion and start implementation of this plan by means of the virtual interlocutor.
In the course of the collection of information the student can ask for the staff of various divisions of the firm (system administrators, heads of divisions and any other employees) and has to receive with them the answer. It is good if the answer is intelligent. But the answer is not obliged to be exact. Respectively, it is necessary to have the certain option of "Elisa" configured to the description of this or that division of the firm in which expansion is carried out. The program has to distinguish a question and give on it the intelligent answer, also the answer can not belong to the asked question, or continues conversation in some plausible way. Characters of this simulator can have different qualities and different desire to communicate.
Objectives and Aims
The object of this work is Business Game “Deployment” of information system on the MSF technology, and a subject is the process of getting the requirements for deployment.
The main purpose of the work is the creation of the virtual assistant as a module of the business game for obtaining information by players necessary for implementation of the plan of expansion, for example, the number of computers in a firm or qualification of users. But how exactly the player will inquire this information, it is in advance not known to anybody (including, to the player). The system has the right to behave as the normal person: not to understand a question, to understand it in the own way, to answer it is incomplete, inexact and in general inattentively, to ask again and so forth.
For achievement of a goal, it is necessary to solve the following problems:
1) To analyze the existing virtual interlocutors;
2) To make the list of questions and answers for each used role of this system by the MSF technology;
3) To develop a database from the received characters and dialogues;
4) On the basis of the existing decisions to make a chatterbot.
Method
In work will be used such method of theoretical research as the analysis of the existing sources of information on a research subject; methods of empirical research, such as studying of results of game of previous years.
The system has to have control:
1. On subject domain of dialogue.
2. On concrete information which the player can learn.
3. One feature of "the partner in dialogue" whom it represents in the game.
Results
While doing the research chatterbots prototype was developed for the system within Business Game by MSF Technology.
One of the main advantages is related to using by software engineers in the Higher School of Economics for studying MSF technology. Actually, it may reflect any aspects of business processes, because the model includes all necessary resources, operations and relationships. Moreover, chatterbot is self-learning. It means the program can remember the main questions and answers. Therefore the game can be corrected if it's necessary. Formalized description of business processes plays a key role for the purpose of modeling.
Strengths and Limitations of the Study
In this section, some major strength and limitations are considered.
The main strength of the study is related to using by software engineers in the Higher School of Economics for studying MSF technology.
The major limitation concerned with the differences between targets of dialogues. Implementation of the dialogue with the computer to discuss important issues is an additional problem: a program needs to think.
Conclusion
The purpose of the current research was to acquire prototype virtual agents for carrying out the Business Game “Deployment” by MSF Technology.
Taking everything into consideration, it can be said that the goal of the work is achieved, as a prototype was developed, based on composed requirements. 
The process of implementation required utilization of MS Visual Studio 2015 which was used in the development of the console chat.
It must be noticed that this paper is the next part of the studying MSF Technology. Last year A. Yugov was created "Stabilization Game" for our students. However, there is still much to do and improving the prototype will continue.
