Introduction
Background.
Collecting energy equipment performance indicators is one of the most important needs of companies of all sizes. The processing of energy data is carried out with the help of a set of interrelated programs that collect and process data. This data characterizes the energy consumption and efficiency of the equipment. The information enters the system directly from sensors or meters installed on the equipment and is processed in accordance with previously established algorithms. After processing, the data are visualized in a user-defined mode, which can then be customized to meet individual user needs.
Undue energy consumption, unaccounted downtime, performance degradation and many other factors that basic control systems cannot track in real time threaten enterprises with increased time and financial resources for production, as well as rapid and sudden equipment failure. The information system being developed within the framework of this project will allow to process quickly a large volume of incoming data and will make the process of energy consumption analysis more visible and regulated. 
The information approach to data accounting significantly simplifies and speeds up the process of processing complex data, as well as reducing labor and time spent on equipment regulation and adjustment, which indicates the relevance of developing such systems.
An information-driven approach to energy data recording greatly simplifies the processing of complex data that, without a system, are either not recorded or are manually recorded with a high level of effort, thus indicating that the development of such systems is relevant.
Delimitations of the Study.
Compressors have been chosen as a visual aid because they operate continuously in the company and require a large amount of electrical energy, which means that they need to continuously record energy consumption and resource output.
Problem statement.
From all aforesaid it is possible to tell that the purpose of work is  information system development of gathering and the power data analysis of compressors, allowing to read out data from gauges and to write down them in databases of time series, to process them with use of the statistical analysis methods, to show to the user operation of the industrial equipment in a real time  mode. 
The following tasks have been set to achieve the goal:
1.	To analyze the current state of energy data accounting and processing systems.
2.	To carry out a review of the main indicators of power equipment operation at the enterprise.
3.	To designing of information system architecture;
4.	To carry out development and testing. 
Professional Significance.
Practical significance of work consists in that such system will help the user by means of schedules to visually estimate efficiency of work of compressors, to understand in what situations and in what moment of time it is necessary to take actions for improvement of work, to estimate consequences of wrong work of the equipment, etc. For example, detecting unplanned downtime, unjustified power consumption or pressure drop inside the compressor will quickly correct the situation and normalize the equipment, which is indispensable for the operation of a large enterprise. Also, the system will help to analyze productivity for a day, week, month, will allow you to consider the number of shutdowns and turns on and production volume for different periods of time. 
Literature Review
In an enterprise with many equipment it is difficult to track the amount of electrical energy consumption.  Decrease in the efficiency of the equipment leads to large losses for the company, so it is important to constantly monitor the amount of electricity consumption. As the analysis of energy data shows, one of the most expensive resources at a production enterprise is compressed air. It is used by consumers for pneumatic drive machines, vehicles, equipment, etc. 
Although development of systems for recording energy data of compressors consumption is very relevant, systems that would fit absolutely everyone and would be supplied directly to the customer are very few. Usually, such systems have a long process of deployment and automation, and are also high in cost, so that the main customers of such systems are mainly large enterprises.
Since the system under development should help to reduce energy consumption and increase productivity, so the first thing to do is to identify possible causes of low production efficiency through analysis of the current market situation and review of Russian and foreign publications.
For example, the article deals with the issues of increasing the efficiency of a group of compressors consisting of two subgroups of piston machines of different capacities. In this example, low efficiency was associated with many consumers, whose work is poorly coordinated with each other, as well as features of the technology, which required short-term, but huge air consumption. To solve the above problems the author of the article resorted to the implementation of automated monitoring of energy parameters and proactive control of compressors.  The system recorded changes in parameters and achieved the minimization of specific power consumption by the entire group of compressors.  
Also, in article the following reasons of low productivity of compressed air are given.
Specialists responsible for energy efficiency improvement, in most cases cannot fully show the effect of energy-saving measures for equipment that produces compressed air. Very often the number of meters is limited or absent, and continuous monitoring and recording of energy data is too expensive and labor intensive. 
Also, even if metering devices are available for large energy consumers, specialists have limited billing and operation statistics for a selected period. It should be clarified that such functionality may not exist. 
Another reason is an increase in time, human and analytical resources for continuous processing of information flows about processes occurring in the pneumatic system. This is aggravated by the expansion of the nomenclature of technical accounting tools and the increase in the number of equipment in the enterprise over time. This leads to the fact that the energy services of organizations can no longer provide up-to-date data on all equipment.
And the last of the listed reasons is economically unprofitable use of MES (manufacturing execution system) systems for work with compressor equipment data.
There are various ways to solve all existing problems. For example, the consulting group "Borlas" provides a solution for energy and utilities, which have a similar structure to the developed system, based on "Oracle Utilities Meter Data Management". In general, this solution allows to aggregate data, process and transmit to external systems and calculate consumption. The application also supports SmartGrid devices.
At the same time, ProLeit develops automation solutions for various production processes, including energy data accounting using the EnMS configuration. Such a system is a complex system with the calculation of the required number of meters and their determination of the location and implementation of an integrated Energy Management System (EnMS) with automatic and technologically coordinated load relief.
Above are some of the most popular off-the-shelf solutions, but despite the variety of solutions, none of them can be used at the customer's facility due to the huge cost of acquiring a full configuration. Therefore, in this project it is necessary to develop a smaller scale system specifically for the enterprise. 
For storage of energy data, it is necessary to have a database, which now there is an enough. Most of them are designed especially for the decision of certain problems, therefore, to consider them all very laborious and inefficiently. One of the requirements for the system is to record a huge amount of data in the database as well as to process processing requests quickly, so a search was made for literature describing the appropriate management system. So, according to the disinterested company "JUG.ru Group"1, the following databases are the most suitable by criteria: MongoDB and InfluxDB, which are time series databases.
Based on the documentation, the recording speed in InfluxDB is much higher than in MongoDB. Since the system doesn't suppose data updating, filling old data in the missed period and complex search, and each record in the database must have its own time stamp, the speed of record is very important for the task.
We should also specify the pros and cons of this choice.
The pros and cons:
1. There are client libraries for almost all popular programming languages (JavaScript, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Python, Node.js, PHP, Java, Clojure, Common Lisp, Go, Scala, R, Erlang, Perl, Haskell, .NET(C#));
2. SQL-like query language;
3.	Easy integration with visualizers.
And the disadvantages:
1.	It is developed mainly under Linux;
2.	The user interface is not included into the server package.
Considering all the analysis carried out, we can say that this database is most likely to be selected for the development of this system.
Methods
For realization of information system, it is supposed to use methods of object-oriented programming, data statistical analysis, and the system approach, allowing to carry out the analysis of system elements and their interrelation within the limits of concrete organizational structure.
For performance of the first task it is necessary to reveal the most used systems of the account and processing of the power data. After that it is necessary to reveal their advantages and disadvantages according to the criteria, which later will help to reveal more precisely the requirements to the system under development.
The second task is assuming that the actual energy consumption will be measured experimentally and compared with the indicators of sensors, if any. If no sensors are available at the plant, then compare the actual power consumption with the declared equipment manufacturers [10]. 
With the help of the interviewing method to identify which indicators of the equipment the customer wants to consider in the system. 
Performing design of information system architecture does not imply the use of specific methods.
For the stage of development of systematic statistics, it is necessary to use statistical analysis methods, which will allow the user to consider energy data for different periods, such as day, week, month, year, etc.
Results Anticipated
An analysis of the subject area will be carried out to carry out the work. The current state of energy data accounting and processing systems will also be analyzed. The analytical materials of this system and ways of their implementation will be considered. Presumably, it will be decided to integrate the system with InfluxDB.
The second stage will include a review of the main performance indicators of power equipment at the enterprise, during which the most important indicators for accounting, such as energy consumption, pressure and compressed air production, will most likely be considered.
Subsequently, the system architecture of the information system will be designed. Charts of variants of use, actions, sequences, classes, deployments and the architectural scheme of the system will be developed. System requirements, precedent scenarios and user interfaces will also be formulated.
Conclusion
Following the above results, an information system for statistical processing of energy data will be introduced and tested. For this purpose, a database with as many measurements as it is planned to register indicators will be created.
The practical importance of the work will be to reduce power consumption at the enterprise, as well as the creation of a system to monitor the condition of equipment. In the work it is planned to acquire skills in working with sensors, databases and dashboards. The scientific importance of the work will consist in checking the feasibility of these methods in the real enterprise environment. 
 
