INTRODUCTION
The majority of modern private clinics try to reach the maximum automation of the workplace, establishing integrated medical systems with included several modules. However, it is worth to mention that the municipal hospitals do not always withstand the load of these systems, which are successfully implemented on the basis of small clinics. Therefore, the budgetary healthcare institutions have to follow the principle of scrappy automation that is not sufficient.
Recently a number of researchers are occupied in the automated medical systems area, and special offers appear in different companies. The enterprise business architecture development has the crucial importance as it allows to establish project evaluation skills and to prevent a firm bankruptcy. Project economic efficiency estimation is one of the most important stages of pre-investment planning, which involves a detailed analysis concerning technical, economic and financial data collected and prepared at the previous stages of the research and its further manipulation. Such calculations allow to make predictions about the time period during which the economic viability of the project and the need for its implementation are determined.
Medical institution information and communication system is designed to automate the medical routine. Object of this research is the business model of the enterprise for studio design, and a subject – approaches and techniques of the enterprise business architecture description.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Medical institution information and communication system is used as a support for doctors and other specialists in the organization and is declared as a comprehensive, integrated system designed to manage medical, administrative, financial, and legal issues. It focuses mainly on the administrational needs of the hospital. The System includes different modules for each ward in the medical institution and besides modules for non-medical departments. Architecture is based on a distributed approach and on the implementation of standard software products complying with the industrial and market standards must be used.
Before the System development, business plan that is composed of project life cycle, financial and human resources, economic indexes for feasibility evaluation should be prepared. It is significant to make all necessary calculations before the project realization as the system structure is sophisticated, otherwise the company will incur losses. Currently the feasibility study for statistics collection module has been completed, nevertheless this investigation does not provide specific information about organization structure, business processes, possible risks and competitors that realize complex automated medical systems. Project risk management is an important aspect of project management. Yet the businessperson maintain his enterprise with a greater or lesser degree of success by, perhaps subconsciously, taking risk into account. 
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The general aim of this research is to develop the business architecture of the IT-enterprise realizing information and communication systems for medical institutions.
This goal may be reached by completing several tasks. Firstly, the enterprise strategy and mission are to be defined. Afterwards the long-term business objectives should be determined. After that, organization structure, sales channels structure and the enterprise functional model using business objectives need to be designed. Moreover the feasibility study for the enterprise project implementation is to be prepared. And finally, project documentation should be created.
METHODS
Mission and strategy definition are vitally important for the enterprise business architecture. Enterprise mission is to improve the competence level of employees by high-quality service development. The strategy is to increase the number of market sectors that are interested in information and communication systems implementation for medical institutions and to improve service quality, ensuring reliable and troubleproof system operation. Furthermore, long-term goals are established. Among them are the entries into the Russian and European market. Therefore, the expansion of system techno park may be required and profit growth is expected.
Before the development of business architecture, relevant literature should be examined, in particular, the approaches to architecture of the enterprise in general. Such approaches as Zakhman's structure, TOGAF methodology (The Open Group Architecture Framework), FEA methodology (Federal Enterprise Architecture), Gartner Methodology were considered. By criteria (including process completeness, focus on business, management manual availability) and an evaluation of each methodology Zakhman's structure was chosen.
During the stage preceding the enterprise registration the enterprises specialized in automated medical systems were analyzed. Thus, information about the direct competitors and the similar products prices are received. Based on these prices, the price of the system is set.
For effective work of the enterprise, models of business processes should be constructed, then analyzed and improved. Models of the enterprise are constructed by special software Aris Process Modeler in VAD, eEPC and FAD notations.
Next, the marketing and production plan are designed. Market research, evaluation of the enterprise market opportunities, demand for medical information systems and ways of various route-to-market are crucial for the effective business activity organization. The short technological process features description of service (technological process features production) is given in production plan also. The latter is formed based on the plan of rendering services and the assessment of production capacity.
During organizational planning the organizational structure of the enterprise directed on establishment of clear interrelations between its separate departments is formed. This structure contains the quantity and the size of departments, their subordination, the sizes and organizational structure of the serving and administrative divisions.
Further, the financial plan is formed. Investments and production costs estimation is necessary too, considering that profitability of the project eventually depend on their amount, structure and implementation schedule. Investments and basic elements of production costs defined in the previous stages of the plan are aggregated in the financial plan to calculate total investment costs and to define financial and economic profitability.
PREDICTED RESULTS
The business architecture of the enterprise was developed and documented in business plan for medical institution information and communication system. This business plan consists of several parts: business plan summary, objectives and aims of the project, description of the enterprise, analysis of branch, competition, strategic position and risks evaluation, marketing plan and sales strategy, production plan, organizational plan and financial plan.
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The limitations of this study can be divided into two groups: investment and experience. Investment limitations are connected with particular amount of money investor could spend on the project. Frequently investors plan their expenses and predict the sum they want to get back. Thus, if calculated value does not coincide the planned one, investor will decline the project. Besides, semester time limitations give the project group an opportunity to develop the enterprise architecture as a real project, but not all participants have enough experience in this sphere. Thereby, it can affect the quality and completeness of the work as a whole and the business architecture development in particular.
Despite all the identified limitations of the research, this study could be done undertaking all the risks and uncertainties. Though this business plan could be created within a real project that gives a chance to practice some relevant skills and get additional experience.
CONCLUSION
To summarize it can be said that business architecture of the IT-enterprise was developed. Created business plan, which is the main part of business architecture, helps to understand key indicators trends, how they could be raised and the most important - the payback period of the project. One of the key indicators is the net present value that is the difference between all earnings and costs given at the time of investment project evaluation. This parameter represents the amount of money that an investor expects to receive from the project after income compensates his initial investment costs and recurrent costs associated with the project. The payback period is the period from the beginning of the project until the net present value reaches the zero point, and then - stable above zero. A certain information helps investors and participants to answer the question, whether it is worth making investments in this project. 
