INTRODUCTION
The dynamic environment and unexpected changes in trade and production are currently main characteristics of today’s market. Globalization of economy and the progress of information and communication technologies (ICT) lead to creating of new spectrum of organizations where physical and manageable boundaries do not exist. ICT make changes in the structure of organizations so that some jobs are redesigned, traditional management styles are altered. As a result, the manifestations of these changes can be observed in virtual enterprises.
The popularity of virtual enterprises is explained by increasing pressure from the market. To be competitive, companies must have high flexibility and responsiveness to the needs of the customers. According to this concept, organizations become to alter main processes and business models and create new type of association such as business network. The typical example of business network is a virtual enterprise. However, the appearance of new form of organization faces with the problem of virtual enterprise management, the need of research of method, instruments and models for decision-making processes. Strong customer orientation with the progress of ICT cause development and implementation of new management strategies.
A virtual enterprise is a temporary coalition of autonomous, heterogeneous geographically dispersed partners integrated with cyberspace or informational space to interact with each other for common business projects. Mowshowitz was the first who introduced the term “virtual enterprise” in 1997, while Mozaffari discussed the idea of “virtual corporation” in 2007. After more than two decades, generally, two conceptions of VE’s were developed: socio-economic one and informational one. From socio-economic point of view, a virtual enterprise is a new type of consolidation among dispersed individuals, groups or departments, which communicate with each other, use common resources and reach desired aims with high quality and low costs. Reaching business goals by sharing fundamental capabilities tend to collaboration among multiple business partners. From informational point of view, a VE is a collaborative network where autonomous and heterogeneous enterprises interacting using of ICT. However, over last five years, these two conceptions do not have differences in understanding of the researchers. The reason is that modern level of ICT and its using in organization processes gives the competitiveness for all the participants decreasing of costs and forming of business preferences.
The creation of methods and models for VE’s management system bases on modern ICT and as a result, gives market competitiveness. The increasing importance of ICT is the main factor for organizations to redesign own business models and the architecture to the direction of VE’s. Practical experience of managers should be confirmed by theoretical surveys and researches including developed methods and models appropriate for the new type of business cooperation.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
OVERVIEW
Today, the progress of virtual enterprises such as new form of business requires making changes in an organizational scheme and management system. The aggregate analysis of common characteristics defines that effective management must be based on complex modelling that takes into account three common features: collaboration, distributed architecture and high level of coordinating control. Consequently, the ideal approach to management system of such organizations is to create the model that will solve not only tasks of partner selection but also decision-making tasks.
However, an organizational structure and the processes of decision-making are researched in parallel directions or are consolidated not to the full extent. Therefore, there are some scientific viewpoints for virtual enterprise management such as math modeling, the process of partner selection, the choice of parameters for participants and others. Moreover, the challenges to the strategies of management exist, especially from theoretical point of view for the researchers and practical point of view for the managers.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
OVERALL OBJECTIVE
The primary research problem includes models and tools for processes of decision-making within the management system of networked types of businesses. Currently, there are a number of procedures and methods used either to organize participants of enterprise or to manage common resources. The main purpose of the research is development of complex approach to management system modelling for virtual enterprise architecture. The complexity implies that the approach contains models of an organization structure, business processes and management techniques and as a consequently integrates all the models into the effective tool for decision-making processes.
SPECIFIC AIMS
To achieve the main purpose, it is necessary to fulfil specific aims. The first step is to point out typical features of virtual enterprise like a new type of business. The second aim is to develop the organization structure based on the specific characteristics. Thirdly, it needs to define a set of management tasks, which are related to virtual enterprises. Fourth step is to integrate the organization structure and the set of tasks into the complex approach to management system modelling. Finally, creation of models and implementation of them using information and communication technologies.
APPROACHES
OVERVIEW
To approach the research issue, it is necessary to describe approaches that allow solving research tasks systematically.
The first approach is ontology. The main idea of the approach is to represent the conceptual scheme of virtual enterprises domain. Within the research, ontological approach is used for two main directions: organizational structure models and management tasks models. The next section will report these directions more descriptive.
The one of the main tasks for the research is to identify basic characteristics and to point out features characterized the virtual enterprises structure such as the type of architecture scheme for new type of business. Ontological approach enables to present a mixture of basic elements, links and a type of relationship between general elements. The next task, where an ontology is an appropriate mean, is systematic review of management tools and techniques. It is important stage because management requirements specification integrated with ontology-based structure model make the beginning of complex approach to the virtual enterprise management system.
Within the research, to implement the ontological approach, Protégé was used as popular free software to edit ontologies and create knowledge frameworks. 
The second approach is agent-oriented modelling. The choice of approach depends on common characteristic of virtual enterprise such as a partner network. Virtual enterprises imply a new type of consolidation among dispersed groups and departments (in the literature – agents). Agent-oriented modelling allows fulfilling tasks of partnership management developing models and using computer simulation. To implement the approach, AnyLogic was used as software developed in Russia and able to simulate ad-hoc network of partners. Ad-hoc connection is also one of the common characteristics of virtual enterprises and means interaction suddenly, at any time.
Moreover, the basic scientific methods were used such as, theoretical and empirical methods. The examples of used methods are data collection, data analysis and practical experience.
PREDICTED RESULTS
The aim of the research is to develop the solution to management system modelling for a virtual enterprise. To achieve the main purpose, the wide range of secondary aims were analyzed and performed. The next sections represent the results of common tasks: data analysis and domain research, ontology-based modeling and agent-oriented simulation modeling.
The analysis of fundamental features and common characteristics of VE’s domain were made to identify the specific aspects of the new form of organizations. The approaches to VE’ architecture were considered to create the conceptual model of organizational structure. The papers of foreign researchers became the perfect base for indication of methods and approaches to management styles and strategies. The conceptual schemes of the structure and management tasks were described for further modelling using software and means represented in Approaches.
To realize the concept of VE’s architecture, a number of ontology-based models were developed. The ideas of overall structure were represented in models of a virtual corporation like a network of small firms, a virtual enterprise like a network of individuals and teams, and a virtual workplace like virtual working procedures. Moreover, management instructions, definitions, and communication protocols were organized into the set of ontology-based models integrated with models of an organizational structure into the complex approach to management system. The ontology-based models were implemented using Protégé.
According to the developed complex approach, the strategies of participants of VE were implemented and tested using agent-orienting modelling with help of a simulation environment. The models of partner’s collaboration were developed for decision-making processes within the order allocation task. The developed models simulated behavior of each agent, interaction between agents, and creation of ad-hoc connections. Agent-oriented modelling was implemented using AnyLogic.
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The constraints of research include time, resources and the content limits. Time constraints for the research is limited to the semester, and it is not ideal for good theoretical and practical analysis and research. The resource limitation is considered the student version of AnyLogic software. For this reason, some functional options and features of agent-oriented modelling can be simplified or not implemented in the simulation stage. The content constraint depends on the choice of the order allocation task for simulation. The developed complex approach to management system was implemented with help of agent-oriented modelling and the concentration on interaction between partners on stage of order allocation is explained by standard task of efficient and profitable management. Thus, the solution for effective order allocation is the main task of VE’s management system.
CONCLUSION
Developing and modeling complex approach to VE’s management system that integrated the notions of an organization structure and decision-making processes can be a challenging task. Additionally, the challenges to the strategies of management exist, especially from theoretical point of view for the researchers and practical point of view for the managers.
The systematic analysis of key features characterized a virtual enterprise and important differences from the traditional approach defined shows that the management system modelling requires the complicated picture of VE’s common ideas. These ideas include flat structure, the greater role of ICT, clear boundaries, using common resources and information, decentralization of activities and the ability of changes in partnership. The analysis results that, in whole or in part, each of these ideas are involved in the structure and the management style of VE’s.
The process of conceptual scheme creation was completed using ontologies such as the mean available to describe the domain of the research and in fact widely used by the researchers solving the problems of modern virtual enterprises.
The choice of modeling paradigm depends on the type of an enterprise and the form of relationship between the participants. The agent-based approach covers all the general aspects in the full extent.
Additionally, the study resulted in the simulation of developed complex approach to management system. The set of ontology-based models have become the fundamental means to create simulation models of order allocation task. The developed approach and models might tend to some combination of researchers and management views on the stage of decision-making processes within a virtual enterprise.
