Introduction
There is a high demand in informational technologies services from mostly all kinds of spheres today. From the very beginning of computer era people started to transit what they were doing manually to a computer in order to simplify what their daily routine. With the development of an internet in middle 90-s and growth of internet marketing a new tendency took place - companies started their transition into a virtual space and changed their companies structure in order to complement this tendency.
Questions of this research are: what benefits could consultancy company achieve after changing its structure to a virtual organization type; which competence of a company should be included into virtual organization system and is it worth it to go virtual for a company of that sphere of business.
The result of this work will be a foundation for the further development of a virtual organization system, which will include virtual organization and mathematical models and a set of UML diagrams, that describe what system will consist of and show its behaviour and logic.
Problem statement
There are a lot of examples of significant impact of the information technologies introduction in a business area. Success of such companies like Uber, Apple iTunes Store and EBay always excites owners of other types of businesses. Those companies have desirable results from many points of views: all of them have highly efficient business-processes, financial performance, public admiration and an opportunity of future growth. Those things make them very similar to each other, yet they are different kinds of companies. What makes them even more close is the fact that they evolve from such spheres of business that at some point of time seemed to be outdated and fading away. The example of evolution of an industry could be sound recording and cinema companies. If we look back in time we could see that the appearance of online digital stores of music and movies actually saved those industries as they were suffering from internet piracy at that time. Such an evolution in distribution of media turned out to be vital to them, as now we all can see that it is taking a next step into streaming of a content, which now outsells traditional digital stores.
It seems that other smaller companies of other business spheres could benefit from implementation of informational technologies as well as those big players who have succeeded already. The idea of moving some parts of business to a virtual space seems to be a good idea, because it could increase efficiency and effectiveness of a business, help to concentrate at the key function of a company it improve its financial performance. 
Consultancy can be a sphere of a business which benefits from going to virtual organization structure more than others. There are two main points that seem to be important at the beginning or the research. First of all, such a type of business requires a large numbers of employees as it is crucial to have specialists of multiple expertise to help customers with solving their problems. But the fact that some of those employees might not be required full-time throughout a year might be a problem for a company. The idea of having outsource workers, that could be easily brought into companies’ projects only when their expertise is needed might help a company with saving its budget.
Customers are the ones who could also benefit from working with a company in a virtual space. First of all, some questions need to be solved as fast as it possible and if it takes a few minutes of discussion it would be easier to contact a consultant online. Secondary, what seems to be more productive from both customers and companies point of views is a possibility of cooperation between both companies while solving some complicated case. Collaboration between workers of a consultancy company and workers of customers’ company could be much easier and faster when they work on a case online all together.
Objectives and aims
The general objective of this study is to develop a set of models, which could be used in the development of the system later. It includes a business-model of a virtual organization, which shows the whole system from a general point of view; a mathematical model of a system needs to be developed to show how the system will behave in a runtime; a UML model will describe the system in details. The UML model will include use case diagram, flow diagrams, component diagram, activity diagrams, state machine diagram and others.
Secondary objectives include study of constancy sphere and its specifics, comparison of virtual-organization business-models and economic reasoning of the development of the system.
Approach
The approach that will be used in this work is a common practice in a software development. First of all, the field of consultancy will be investigated for an identification of specific needs of the system of that field.  After that with a specification of a system choice of a virtual organization business-model will be made and it will be possible to start the development of models of the system. System will be designed with Unified Modelling Language. This instrument fits this study the best because it visualise crucial points of a software design on a multiple levels: shows what functions the system will include and its distribution by its users; shows logic of processes; gives a vision of how system will behave in a runtime, as it is important to prevent possible conflicts within system components; visualises structures of classes and databases that could be a part of a system.
Predicted results
The planned result of this study is a set of models that consists of business model and mathematical model of virtual company and and a set of visual models that describe planned functionality of the system and the way it preforms within company’s environment. In addition to that the paper will include an economic reasoning of the development of the system and a model of a local network that might be used by a company to maintain its virtual business segment.
Strengths and limitations of the study
The research will include models that are needed to develop the virtual organization system – it limits on the foundation of the development. It will not answer the question of how the system will be developed (i.e. what platform will be used or what programming language it will be written on), but will find required functionality, its structure and behaviour. Only specific parts of consultancy business will be considered in details on the sphere of consultancy because some business-processes, such as bookkeeping procedures, are not different from other companies.
Conclusion
Consultancy is a sphere of business where a number of experts with specific expertise is needed only at moments when a customer asks for a help, that seems to be the main reason a company of that kind could benefit from distributed structure. In order to achieve that a business model of virtual organization and a specified system are needed to be developed.
This study limits itself on a business-model for a company and a set of models for a system, which then can be used for a further development.
