INTRODUCTION
The past twenty years have seen increasingly rapid advances in the field of video games. Having started from the slot machines, this sphere is progressively engulfed almost all digital devices: computers, touch pads and mobile phones are used by us every day.
The video game market is one of the most profitable ones.  Huge teams of programmers, artists, and game designers work on the modern game projects, and professional writers make plots for games. Computer games have become an important economic component, and some blockbuster games profit much higher revenues than box office for movies of the same genre.
However, not only the technologically computer games are demanded in the world.  Many indie game developers create small games which do not possess modern, expensive, high quality graphics and the corresponding soundtrack as games of the popular companies. Nevertheless, similar games are very popular and often possess a fascinating plot or carry the innovation in a gameplay.
All this became possible with the advent of various platforms simplifying the process of game development such as Unity game engine, Unreal Engine, and Source. All of them contain a standard set of tools for creation of computer graphics, animation, for development of behavior and interaction of game objects. Besides the game engine there are many program scripts, plug-ins, textures developed by other programmers and artists that can be used in the projects. Thanks to it the market of computer games has become richer, because now, people who do not have professional skills or team for realization of their own ideas can create games, using ready tools.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Due to the high popularity of video games, board games gradually pass into the background. However, among them there are quite a lot noteworthy projects which are capable to attract new players. The game considered in this research is «Evolution». It is a desktop simulator of life on The Earth that is based on the Darwinian principle of natural selection. Each player develops its own population of living creatures by giving them different properties.
At the moment, the board game has not got a digital counterpart. Besides, there are three main factors determining the need to develop a computer game. First of all, it is the lack of space, free time, or the required number of players (this game is designed for companies from 2 to 4 people). The second factor is that over time, some elements of table games such as cards or chips may be damaged or lost. The third one is that it is very difficult to find more experienced rivals to improve their gaming skills.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The main purpose of this work is the development of a computer version of the board game "Evolution". The stated objective is achieved by performing the logically inter-related steps. First of all, the rules of a board game must be learned to describe the game logic. Then it is necessary to design the architecture of the games developed on the platform Unity. The next step is to design the game objects and the graphical user interface. The last step is to implement a computerized version of the game on the basis of models designed and to test the application.
METHODS
Object-oriented analysis will be used throughout the process of developing a computer game. This technical approach uses the object-oriented paradigm and visual modeling throughout the development of life cycles to foster better stakeholder communication and product. With this method, the board game will be presented as a set of objects of a single system with specific properties; these objects interact with each other according to certain rules. Techniques such as abstraction and decomposition will help to highlight the most significant elements of the system, necessary to describe game logic. The modeling technique will be used for building the architecture of a computer game.  Besides, on the basis of the developed model the program code would be exploited. 
As a medium for the development of the computer game "Evolution" Unity is chosen. The Unity is a flexible and powerful development platform for creating multiplatform 3D and 2D games and interactive experiences. It is a complete ecosystem for anyone who aims to build a business on creating high-end content and connecting to their most loyal and enthusiastic players and customers. The benefits of using Unity are many when compared to other game engines. Here is the comparison of the main criteria.
Programming language. The main programming language used in Unity is C#. This language is an elegant and type-safe object-oriented language that enables developers to build a variety of secure and robust applications.
Documentation. The Unity engine comes with complete documentation with examples for its entire API. This is the most relevant benefit of Unity and leads to increased productivity when compared to other engines such as Unreal or Source which only provide partial documentation for developers.
Developer Community. There is an active on-line developer community which can often provide assistance for new users. The Unity Technologies developers also are very willing to add features to the engine at a users request, which will never happen if using a big-name engine such a Unreal is used.
Multiplatform Distribution. The Unity engine’s editor runs on Windows, however applications created using Unity can be compiled for iOS, Android, Windows Phone or as a Web-Player (which runs in a web browser via a plugin, similar to Adobe Flash). 
Besides Unity game engine, Visual Studio will be used, as a tool for writing code and Photoshop as a tool for creating graphic elements of the game. 
PREDICTED RESULTS
The intended result of the work will be designed in the form of diagrams and models describing the basic game logic. On the basis of Visual Studio and Photoshop software, the code will be developed and all necessary graphic elements will be drawn. Then, these resources will be integrated into the Unity game engine. As a result of this work the computer game "Evolution" will be developed.  This game will be the digital equivalent of the board game with the same rules and elements.
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The project is limited in several ways. The first limitation is the lack of developer’s experience in the field of game development. Secondly, the study is limited by the lack of time to work. Time allowed for one semester is too small to conduct a full research. 
Because of these limitations, we decided to determine the boundaries of some parts of the study. Firstly, we do not take into account the mobile version of the game. Secondly, computer enemy will be implemented through the selection of random actions without difficulty levels.
CONCLUSION
The developed computer game "Evolution" hides some flaws of its board game analogue, thereby complementing it and keeping audience interest.
It is important to emphasize that the computer game is much more convenient to use, it requires no additional space and the number of a compulsory company consisting of 2 or more people. The second advantage is that computer game is easier to store and takes only a few megabytes of memory on hard disk.  Thirdly– single player and multiplayer functions allow players to develop their skills by playing against the computer enemy, or finding new competitors via the Internet. Therefore, these benefits can save the popularity of the game. In the future, it is expected to develop a mobile version of the game, and complement it with new elements.
