Introduction
Prediction of stock prices has become a hot topic for researcher ever since the first stocks started trading publicly. This attention is easily understandable because the ability to forecast future prices means one can speculate and earn money on price’s movements. However, soon quotes became unpredictable and the reason for this was that all available information was reflected in asset price immediately. This phenomenon is commonly known today as “Efficient Market Hypothesis”. The author of this hypothesis, Eugene Fama (1970), argued that in theory it impossible to have stable positive returns on financial market, but in reality we can observe such investors as Warren Buffet, who have beat the market for a very long period of time. Therefore, an attempt to predict a stock price may bear a profit.
Forecasting of asset that can be bought and sold on the market has obvious benefits. However, what is the reason to predict an index, which has no real value? On a first glance it may sound worthless, but there are several causes that prove the opposite. First is that a methodology applied to predicting an index in theory can be easily applied to the most of underlying stocks without virtually any significant changes. Also, most of the market indices have futures that are being calculated based on their values. Prices of these futures are usually moving closely to an index. And the last but not least, an index is a benchmark of a financial market. By understanding its behavior we can get an insight on a market internal structure.
In Russia, there are two main stock market indices: RTS and MICEX. Both of them have the same underlying stocks, but RTS is calculated on prices in US dollars, whereas MICEX is based on prices in rubles. This raises fundamental difference between them but in the scope of the research this difference does not plays a key role. The decision to predict MICEX index may be considered arbitrary.
In a modern literature one can observe a rising trend of using Machine Learning algorithms to predict stock prices. Moreover, large institutional investors, such as Vanguard, J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs, etc. lately started to headhunt for talented specialists in this field. On the other hand, there is a variety of econometric models developed for the task. These models have a strong theoretical background and easily interpretable which cannot be said about Machine Learning models. This poses a question: what type of models is better suited for forecasting of stock prices. In my research I will attempt to answer this question in the realities of the Russian stock market. To find the answer it is required to complete the following tasks:
* To acquire and to preprocess the relevant data
* To distinguish the most commonly used and not outdated models from both categories
* To properly apply the models to the data considering premises and possible pitfalls
* To compare the models based on various metrics
An additional goal of the research is to develop a tradingstrategy using the best model.

Theoretical background
According to the problem stated in the research it is possible to outline three main categories in relevant academic literature. The first category contains studies on creating and applying Machine Learning models to financial time-series.
Even though fame of Machine Learning started to grow relatively recently, the early papers in economic field were dated the end of the 80s. One of them was an attempt to apply a simple neural network for prediction of IBM stocks returns by Halbert White (1988). One of the most notable distinctions of this paper is that it was the first one made by an economist of such level. Although the result was not in favor of the network, because it performed worse than a “naive” random walk model, the fact that famous scientist saw potential in neural networks approach brought attention to it from many other researchers. Moreover, White highlighted some general problems of the approach, such as high computational costs and overfitting. In more details the process of applying neural networks to prediction of financial time-series was discussed by Kaastra, Iebeling and Milton (1996). Authors suggested a general methodology supported by earlier empirical studies which was aimed to help researchers to avoid some most common mistakes inherent to neural networks. Although the paper is a somewhat outdated, the methodology is still relevant and gives useful tips such as splitting of dataset, data normalizing and some heuristics on topology of neural networks.
In recent years there were numerous papers which used neural networks to predict stock markets: Atsalakis and Valavanis (2009) used fuzzy logic combined with neural networks, Hsien, Hsiao and Yeh (2010) applied wavelet transformation along with recurrent network, Zhang and Wu (2008) proposed IBCO (improved bacterial chemotaxis optimization) algorithm in addition to neural networks, etc.
Moreover, neural networks are not the only Machine Learning algorithm that can be used. Number of papers argues that Support Vector Machines (SVM for short) are more suitable for stocks forecasting. For example, Kim (2003) showed that SVM performs better in prediction of price change direction (i.e. in binary classification task) while Tay and Lijuan (2001) demonstrated the same for regression task. Despite the fact that SVM outperformed neural networks the difference in key metrics (such as accuracy or errors) between algorithms was not sufficient to give an evidence against the latter. In addition to SVM, there can be found a number of papers (although more rarely) that utilized other Machine Learning algorithms, e.g. decision tree and k-nearest-neighbor (Qian and Rasheed, 2007).
Papers in second category are describing another approach of forecasting financial markets using econometric models. There is a variety of such models in literature and no single opinion exists on which one is better. Following review will show some examples, but, of course, it is impossible to describe all approaches especially considering possibility of various combinations and modifications.
Probably the simplest and one of the most popular type of econometric models for time-series prediction is ARIMA (autoregressive integrated moving average). In spite of popularity it is relatively hard to find a recent research that uses only ARIMA due to its linearity and inability to use information from another series. However, some papers utilize ARIMA jointly with more complex models, e.g. Pai and Lin (2005) which combined it with SVM.
Different kind of econometric models which can take into account behavior of exogenous time series is VAR (vector autoregression). This model is a system of k linear autoregressive models with p lags in each one. The main advantage of such model is that it can simultaneously model arbitrary number of different time series, which can be helpful in some cases. As showed Campbell and Shiller (1988), it is possible to predict stock prices using VAR model, although accuracy was not outstanding.
One more model that can be applied to financial time-series prediction is Error Correction Model (ECM for short). This type of models is specified by correcting short term error with usage of long term relationship between cointegrated time series. While this may sound complicated, the idea is pretty simple: if two series are cointegrated then there is a long run equilibrium described by linear combination of series. And what the model does is basically corrects short-term prediction towards that long run equilibrium. According to Hann and Steurer (1995), ECM was able to exhibit decent predictive power in forecasting of DM/USD (Deutsche Mark to US dollar) exchange rate.
As it was mentioned before, the number of econometric models is high and the given list of approaches is not nearly full. In literature one can encounter such models as  ARX, ARMAX, Stochastic Parameter Model (SPM), etc. The main conclusion here is that econometrics provides rich set of tools for modeling and predicting time series. This poses a question: is there a need in Machine Learning techniques for stock market prediction given that traditional econometric models already exist.
Hence, the third category consists of papers which compare econometric and Machine Learning approaches in stock price forecasting. Unlike the previous two, this category is quite limited in size. Only a few papers exists that addressed such problem. One of them is a work of Hann and Steurer (1995), which compared neural networks and ECM in predicting of DM/USD exchange rate. It was said before that authors achieved some decent performance with ECM, but neural network was able to outperform that. Another article on the topic was (Mirmirani, Li, 2004), which measured difference between neural network and VAR model. In their work researchers forecasted oil prices based on 20 years historical data. Again, neural network showed better results than econometric model. In these papers there was little to none arguments on a choice of either econometric or Machine Learning method. Also, overall the range of both approaches used in such researches is meagre bearing in mind the number of them exposed in previous two categories. To a greater extent this applies to Russian papers. Therefore, this research will attempt to close the gap in literature and to give a broader comparison of approaches.

Methodology
Similarly to literature review, methodology of the research can be splitted into four steps.
In the first step data should be collected and prepared. Even though this step may seem to be somewhat less important, it is essential to properly acquire and preprocess the data since all the analysis will be done based on it. Therefore, a mistake in this step will lead to failure of the whole work. Also, because of premises of some econometric models, data should be corrected accordingly. The factors that will be used to predict the price will be derived from relevant literature, e.g. from (Anatolyev, 2008) and (Peresetsky, 2014).All the variables are expected to be acquirable from free sources (i.e. only public information will be used), such as finam.ru for Russian series. The period is expected to be from 2002 to the beginning of 2017, i.e. 15 years, daily.
In the second and third steps Machine Learning and econometric models accordingly will be specified and trained. Of course, it is impossible to use all the models so only the most suitable (based on literature review) will be utilized. This step is also expected to be the most time consuming because some approaches can (and probably will) require a lot of computations.
And in the fourth step the models will be compared by various metrics such as MSE, MAE, R-squared, etc. In addition, they will be collated with benchmark. The benchmark is a “naive” model which always predicts that tomorrow price will be the same as today. This step will show which model is the best one and their overall ranking. Although, different metrics could rank models differently, so this should also be taken into account.
Moreover, if the best model will exhibit sufficient accuracy, in additional step trading strategy will be developed and tested using that model. Returns of this strategy will be then compared to returns of simple “buy-and-hold” strategy. 

Predicted outcomes
According to the literature review, researches in general prove that Machine Learning models are better predictors for stock market. Obliquely this statement is supported by a trend in recent literature that tends to use Machine Learning methods more than econometric ones. One more evidence is that by design Machine Learning approach is more flexible whereas econometric models have strict premises. For example, one of such premises is that time series should be stationary, i.e it should have constant parameters such as mean and variance. In addition, Machine Learning algorithms are more robust to outliers. All of this combined leads to assumption that econometric models will perform worse. But this does not mean that these models will completely “lose”. In contrast to Machine Learning, they are interpretable, that is their coefficients can have some useful information about Russian stock market.

Limitations
First of all, this research has limitations of “scope”. It is virtually impossible to consider each and every model in both categories. Therefore there is always a chance that one (or more) of the models which will not be presented in the research can outperform included ones. This chance can be significantly lowered by thorough picking of models, but it cannot be completely eliminated. Another such limitation rises from the fact that this research is only modeling Russian stock market. Hence, it is highly doubtful that obtained results can be generalized onto other markets.
In addition, the research is constrained by time limits. To use the most advanced models it is required to have enough qualification, and it is almost unreachable to obtain such skills in given time bounds. Because of this, models that will be used won’t be state-of-the-art but they should be relevant at the time of writing.
Going beyond the “scope” of research and using more advanced methodology are two possible directions for future researches.


