Introduction
The impact of the actions and characteristics of the reference group, in other words, the environment influence on the individual performance of group members, manifests in many areas of human life. Similar dependence can be noticed in any social people interaction,for example, at the workplace. In the educational environmentthere is a place for this effect. Here it is called the peer effect. The peer effect is effects of actions and characteristics of the reference group on the individual agent results included in this group (Poldin O. V., Yudkevich M. M., 2011). 
Peer effects are of the interest for researchers from both theoretical and practical points of view. Their study and analysis can help to understand the process of learning, motives ofpupils, as well as to carry out education policy in the formation of study groupsmore efficiently, selecting students, and to promote the academic achievement of students and support them. In all countries, Russia is no exception, higher education institutions intend to recruit to your University the best graduates. 
The researchers study different types of effects of environment in the field of education. But studies that have examined the effects of peer groups of students from different educational programs, sometimes lead to opposite results. Therefore, the research question of this work can be formulated as following: are there any differences in the peer effects among students of different educational programs in the studying mathematics and English language, and how strong they are.
The Russian education system is still underdeveloped compare to European or American educational system. Therefore, the question on peer effects is very important and relevant to investigate. Its importance lies in the fact that the country is always have interest to improve the efficiency of the education system and to increase the availability of it. This occurs due to the fact that all spheres of society are in constant development. Therefore it is imperative to study such effects in an educational environment that can help in achieving a higher aggregate level of education of the future workforce of the state.
The effects of peer, in varying degrees, have place in all years of studying at the University. The most stable results are obtained by researchers investigating first-year students, as student groups that are administratively formed and the majority of subjects in the first years of schooling are compulsory for all students. For a detailed research ofpeer effect in administratively formed student groups theoretical materials on the given problemwere studied and then tested for the presence of this effect in the first-year students of the Economics, management and business Informatics faculty of National research University "Higher school of Economics", Perm branch.

Theoretical background
For the first time the attention to peer effect has been paid in James Coleman's report called"Equality of educational opportunity" (Coleman et al., 1966). This paper is the first work that shows the analysis of the situation in American schools in connection with the the main directions of educational policy. In this paper the author analyzes the problem of racial segregation in American schools. An important contribution is demonstration ofthe fact that isolating of American children in separated schools will only lead to the increased social fragmentation. Conducting his research, Coleman considers the theoretical model of different reference group effects on the individual student. However, a number of papers that are addressed to the theoretical and empirical ways of learning the peer effects are not very extensive. Most of the authors of this field study how a specific factor affects academic performance of students.
The authors of the following works analyze peer effects in student groups. In these articles the educational environment on students from military academies of the United States is studied, where students are closely cooperating with each other. For example, Lyle (2007) found out that average performance of the student group produces a significant impact on current student achievement in freshmen. Later it is revealed that the greater spread of scores SAT math in the group the higher the academic performance of students in the group is. Moreover, the increase in share ofmentally able students in the group is significantly positively affects the academic performance of all student groups (Lyle, 2009). Fullerton, Carrell, West (2009) tests the peer effect graduates at the air force Academy the United States. The authors of this work reveal the presence of effects in mathematical and scientific disciplines. Besides, there are nonlinear effects, which relate to performance ofstudents with high verbal scores on the SAT testand havethe greatest positive influence on students with low scores. 
In 2005 an analysis is conducted on the educational environment of the undergraduate students of the economic faculty in the Higher school of Economics (HSE) on data about their academic progress. The study investigates students enrolled in school in 2002 (Androuschak, 2005). In this work, the author shows that the achievements of the stronger students of the group adversely affect the achievement of the other classmates, and the success of the weak students has a positive impact. The author suggested that the results obtained can be explained by the high competitive environment in this educational institution (Androuschak, 2005). 
In 2009, the unified state examwas introducedin Russia. This innovation allowed the researchers to assess preparationquality of entrants objectivelyand to use the data of this exam in evaluation of educational production function. Correlation of exam results and academic achievement in high school are studied a lot, I.e., Khavenson, A. A. Solovieva (2014) paper is the example. The authors test the possibility of prediction the success of learning in the University based by the results of the exam. Based on these results the authors conclude that the predictive power of the total score of the exam is acceptable in order to recognize this examination as a valid tool for selecting applicants. Thus it becomes clear that Economics, management and marketing faculties are predicted to have better results in mathematicsacademic performance. The results of this work are interesting and significant for future research in this field; however, they do not consider the effects on academic performance among other students.
De Paola, Scoppa (2010) review graduate students at the University of Calabria in Italy based on data for the period from 2004 to 2006; data is collected for the peer group that is defined as a group of students attending the same courses and passing the final exams at the same time. The authors also analyzecorresponding social relations between students. In their study, the authors face several problems, one of which is the problem of endogeneity of the student groups (the students themselves are free to choose social circle, thus it could influence their choice of courses). To solve this problem, researchers use the method of instrumental variables. In the end, to test the effects student groups in which students are assigned to required courses within three years of the study are selected. The same analysis is conducted on their average ability performance. As a result, the authors obtain positive, statistically significant peer effects.
Androuschak, Poldin, Yudkevich (2012) conduct one of the first empirical studies of peer effects. The study is built on data of the academic achievement of administratively formed groups of economic faculty students in HSE. In that paper the academic progress of students who entered the University in 2009 is analyzed. In the course of this work it is found that student groups peer effects exist. Moreover, the assessment of the individual disciplines and the overall performance in the first year of study increase with academic success of classmates. In addition, the authors find that the environmentaffects the individualin different way for students with different levels of ability or other characteristics. For example, the higher proportion of more able students in the group the better academic achievement of such students is. 
It is worth noting that the authors who study the manifestation of the effects of peer students from different faculties or educational programs, have received conflicting conclusions about the presence of such effects. Therefore, this question is interesting for further consideration.

Methodology and procedure
In the process of studying this effect usually uses the following form of the model without the inclusion among explanatory variables of academic performance of classmates and the General characteristics of the student and his classmates: ,	
where Yi is an indicator of academic achievement of student i, Xi  is a vector of individual characteristics of student i, vector of  the mean exogenous characteristics of the peer group for student i, ?_iare random disturbances.
As a result, it becomes possible to assess the overall effect of the peer, without differentiation of endogenous and exogenous effects. 
The database of the research is an administrative data on the academic achievement of first-year students of the Economics, management and business Informatics faculties (rating of student performance), and the results of the exam are granted admission to the University. 
To analyze the presence of peer effects, for example, students of higher school of Economics, Perm branch, two educational programs – Economics and management recruitment 2014-2015 are considered. The level of educational achievements of students are assessed using the total ranking points for the first year of study, as most subjects in the first year are required, which avoids the problem of endogeneity of the distribution of students in groups. The individual abilities of the student are evaluated by the results of the exam, required for admission to the faculty to analyze HSE Perm data.
In order to more thoroughly analyze the influence of the environment of the student on his academic performance the methodology applied the paper of Androuschak, Poldin, Yudkevich (2012) to estimate non-linear peer effectswill be used. The result will be considered in two specifications.
The average exam classmates in mathematics (for economists) and exam for social studies (for managers) are used as an explanatory variable in specification 1. The value of the coefficients demonstrates how the average indicator changes the total score of the student with the increase of average unified state exam score of classmates at one point.
In specification 2 the proportion of students in the study group who had low and high exam scores in math or social studies for the areas of Economics and managementare respectivelyused as explanatory variables. The values of the coefficients of the regression equation in model 2 divided by 100 show the student by increasing the proportion of students with high or low CSE for the selected object by 1%.It should be noted that this effect can be detected when we are interested in studying different disciplines, and thus regression will be constructed separately for each subject. This is right due to the fact that the study of English language students interact in groups, and only the subgroup and not the entire group of student will affect his success in the subject.

Predicted outcomes
Based on previous research within our problem area, we can assume that the student groups of the higher school of Economics, Perm branch demonstrate peer effects, both linear and non-linear regardless of the direction of training, but their strength can vary significantly. In particular, we assume that in our work the positive influence of strong classmates to a greater extent also will be exposed to the most prepared students. And the increase in the proportion of relatively poorly prepared classmates has no significant influence on academic performance of students in both educational programs. Also it is expected that the peer effects will be observed regardless of the humanitarian or mathematics subject matter.

Limitations of research		
This study has some limitations. First, the sample is targeted, thus results may be applicable only to the Higher school of Economics. And even within this University may be differences due to the change of the curriculum, the difference in the specificity of different areas, or just in training in different campuses. Second, additional characteristics of the group or of the student canpossibly be included into the model, but unfortunately, this data is not available. For example, the learning environment can be included (budget or commercial training), as well as the receipt indicator for the results of the various competitions, as it is done in some studies conducted earlier. Besides, it is possible to consider not only a separate item on the exam, but also make an effort to include the total score of the exam or measure of the joint significance of all exams. In addition, it is necessary to increase the sample to obtain more applicable results. For example, it is possible to consider the dynamics of peer effects on multiple years of schooling, to involve more training areas, or to compare several Universities.