Introduction
The study of human behavior is one of the most important branches of modern science. Such sciences as psychology, sociology and history deal with behavioral area. The importance of human behavior for these areas is great since all people’s actions are directed by behavioral component. It is also one of the fields in economics, because it is an essential part of people’s relations. 
There are a lot of papers dedicated to human behavior, especially nowadays, when issues concerning attitude to gender and nationality have become so pressing. Different phenomena of people’s behavior are investigated in economics. Markets with human participation, such as labor market, commodity market and service market often show discrimination phenomena and while discrimination is unacceptable in a modern society, it still finds a pathway which is associated with the behavior of people.  Employers discriminate employees by gender, nationality, age and place of living. Besides price discrimination exists in commodity and service market.  Mainly, studies on the issues of discrimination are popular abroad, especially in the United States. This trend is associated with a large proportion of African-American and Latin population that is historically and geographically justified. Researchers in the United States use a variety of methods to detect this problem. In Russia, the issue of discrimination is not so popular, but it also takes place. 
After analyzing the information about these phenomena, it became interesting to give greater development to these issues. The present paper focuses on behavioral features in the game «The weakest link» in Russia. At first glance it is hard to associate this game with economics, but you can see that players compete between each other and they have economic incentives, such as money. They work as a team and here we can see decision-making process, which involves various behavior patterns. In the first turn, I will concentrate on discrimination by gender, education and age.  Discrimination by nationality will not be studied, since the bulk of players has Russian origin. 
The study showed another dimension of human behavior, which strongly influences the course of the game. Thus, revenge has become evident in this game that makes it very interesting to study.  Although the rules of the game suggest excluding the weakest players, people can be guided by personal interests, trying to avenge or discriminate. Whether people are prone to revenge, and which groups are more discriminated? These features of character are often seen in everyday life, but it is hard to detect them in such conditions, therefore this game is very convenient for research.
I will concentrate on studying of Russian players, as it has never done before. Russian character differs from US or UK ones, thus it can be interesting to do some comparison between players and characters. The matter of our research is behavior of players, and the central goal is to find phenomena in this TV show and relate them with the real life. The comparison of behavior will be interesting too. Thus, writing this paper I outlined the tasks such as studying of literature with similar topic, observing Russian TV games, preliminary data analysis, building of the economic and econometric model and interpretation of the results. My calculations are based on observations of 10 TV shows from 2001 to 2008 year. However data will be taken as a cross-sectional as we think that people have not changed dramatically.  Econometric research will help me to deal with different factors and divide them to get valid results.

Theoretical background 
Many researchers are interested in the problem of discrimination and  approaches to this subject vary considerably. Discrimination can be noticed in all spheres of our life. Researches are directed to various purposes. Some of them try to elicit the fact of discrimination while others divide discrimination into subspecies.
This theme is very popular in the labor market and in the real estate market. Researches are directed to detection of the phenomenon of discrimination. One of the approaches in the labor market is an estimation of worker’s salary depending on individual characteristics of workers as it was done by Altonji and Blank (1999). But in case of such assessment of regression it will be not necessarily that discrimination availability will be specified. The black population has a smaller work experience due to discrimination in the past that distorts the received results. Wage differentials of black and white athletes were also used for identification of discrimination. One more interesting approach of studying discrimination is "audit study". The essence of this approach is that identical CVs with distinctions in individual characteristics, which cause discrimination, go to employers. According to Moreno Martin and Saavedra Jaime (2004), who used this approach and found out that men can settle to higher position than women, that is the evidence of discrimination in labor market. Also D. Neumark, R.Bank, K.D.VanNort (1996) revealed that 50% of men were accepted to highly paid positions and in 10% for low-paid. At the same time 40% of women can be arranged only to low-paid positions and 9% for high positions. By means of the same method, Marianne Bertrand and Sendhil Mullanaithan (2002) found out that candidates whose names are typical of the black population have smaller opportunities for employment, than candidates with regular names.  
However, in Russia, these issues were not studied quite deeply. All large and qualitative researches were conducted abroad. In our country there were only sociological surveys, which were conducted by Mosakova (2012). They showed that 14,2% of the interviewed workers had faced discrimination in the labor market. In 44% of the CVs there were some age limits. Also 63,1% of respondents considered age as one of the most important factors of discrimination in the labor market. As for the young population, 23,5% of respondents told about understating of compensation, 6,9% spoke about delay of career development. The difficulty of obtaining advanced training was noted by 33,4% of respondents.
Gender discrimination also takes important place in the labor market of Russia. So, the majority of the population considers that it is easier for men to receive a desirable position than for women. 
In this work I will use the show «The Weakest Link» to reveal the phenomenon of discrimination. Steven D. Levitt (2004) is known for his work about behavior and discrimination in this TV show. Following Levitt there are two theories of discrimination which can be revealed with help of changes in the behavior of people in the game "The Weakest Link". The author made the assumption that people cease to vote for people, against whom they voted in the first rounds as they consider that in the final rounds it will be easier to fight against weak players. Author highlights the following constraints of the research : we don't have full set of options (the narrow circle of people, less, than the market), and also  people in the game can't be representative selection because they are selected by the set of criteria. It is important to mention that motives of voting can't be known up to the end, and often the main incentive is to vote as the majority of players does. Eventually author found some discrimination against women, blacks and Asians.
One more paper which also opens a discrimination phenomenon by means of the game " The Weakest Link" is "Games and Discrimination Lessons From The Weakest Link" of authors Kate Antonovics, Peter Arcidiacono and Randall Walsh (2005). Authors of this article mention about difference from the previous research, pointing out the mistakes of that work. Their results contrast with previous publication on direction of discriminating behavior .These authors are interested in determination of whether women against men or men against women. However, they assume that in process of the game, incidents of gender discrimination will decrease, because of the growth of implicit expenses. According to the authors strong player will be less possibly chosen as "the weakest link" unlike weak player.
The researchers have demonstrated the variety of discrimination that can be in the game. In case of preference discrimination participants will vote against members of other groups, however discrimination will be less noticeable by the end of the game as the hidden expenses of discrimination tend to increase to the end of the game. The authors subdivide statistical discrimination into three groups. The first is discrimination of groups which really have differences from average opportunities of all players. In that case game indicators of these players will also differ from all others. The second is discrimination with the awareness on opportunities of own group. Here participants will vote against members of their own group. The third group is discrimination on the basis of inaccurate beliefs about average capabilities of the group. The last type of discrimination is strategic and it is divided into a possibility of obvious and implicit collusion. In case of open collusion voices of one group will be correlated among themselves. Implicit collusion will be shown when the group is able to exclude the player who isn't in this group. If it works well, then the discriminating group will continue to vote against the players who aren't in their group.
As a result the authors didn't find any proofs of discrimination of preferences and strategic discrimination against the blacks or women. Besides, researchers came to a conclusion that women discriminate men in the first rounds. In other words women just prefer to play with women. All of these researches were conducted with foreign players and now there is nothing similar made with Russian players.
In this paper I will try to analyze behavior patterns of Russian players in the same show in Russia, called “The weakest link”. The existence of discrimination will be tested with regression analysis.  I expect to find out some proofs of gender, age discrimination and some discrimination concerning characteristics of the game.

Methodology and procedure
The research methodology will be mainly based on econometric analysis. I have put forward an economic and econometric model to capture all factors that can have an impact on voting. You can see an economic model below.
(constant characteristics of players, changing characteristics, revenge)
Where Votecr is the number of votes received by i-th participant in  j-th round. The indices c and r are responsible for participants and rounds respectively. Xi shows constant characteristics of i-player, Yij is responsible for variable parameters of  i-th player in  j-th round. Variable revengei is changing from round to round and it is responsible for the number of players who are ready to take revenge to the i-th participant. The investigation of this influence may be conjugated with some difficulties, so I will try to overcome them through various econometric methods. It is suitable to use Ordinary Least Squares specification for this data but also I will use binary choice models and ordered choice model.  
The data will be gathered from 10 TV shows and analyzed using statistical methods, but I suppose that it will be crucial to exclude outlying observations because of the nature of this study. It will be taken as a cross-sectional that will make this model simpler to use and allow me to apply different econometric specifications. Here the procedure of voting will be investigated. This paper will also include qualitative and comparative analysis to study the literature in this theme and value the results which will be gained. It will be interesting to analyze this game from the perspective of game theory and the theory of chances.

Predicted outcomes
I suppose to find some evidence of gender discrimination as well as age and educational discrimination. It is expected that the strongest players will be eliminated by the end of the game, but at the beginning of the game, players who have a lot of mistakes will go away.  Another curious thing that I want to find is revenge. It is predicted that players often vote in response of previous voting. They try to remember people who vote against them and kick back as soon as possible. 
Money is very important in this game because participants make their gain together through saving the current win. Those people who save money very often don’t give an opportunity to gain more by answering more complicated questions. Thus I predict that those people will gain a considerable share of votes in all periods of the game. I also hope that results of this study will help to understand the nature of human behavior and show urgent social problems, for instance problems of discrimination and revenge.

Limitations of research
This study has several limitations. Thus, the measurement of education of participants is quite subjective. Determination of education level is based on the player's employment. Unfortunately, there are no data on education level in this TV show.   Revenge is measured on the basis of those who are ready to avenge the player, but the willingness and revenge do not always coincide with each other. Often, in spite of the fact that players have to response to the votes of other players, they still follow the rules of the game, which suggest them to vote against the weakest player. Studies abroad used large enough sample of data in contradistinction to this research, where only 10 games are used. Investigations carried out in England and the United States had information about a player’s solution motivation.  This data would help to justify certain actions of the participants. The fact that the voting is influenced by other factors which are not accounted for in the model, for example  psychological pressure on the player or the participant's home city, can also limit the study.

