Introduction 
It is difficult to overestimate a significant role of governmental decisions in economics on the whole. Russia, being the largest country in the world with a multinational population, feels it even stronger than others do. There are eighty-five regions and each of them has a local government.  A crucial problem is that a majority of these local governments, having all the implements to be successful, in practice are really weak and not able to detect their own economic problems and consequently to solve them. Some of these regions have difficulties with managing local resources, others have chosen not the most optimal way to drive their policy, and so on. In addition, some problems can arise because of geographical issues, for instance, a very large or a very small size of a federal subject, lack of resources or difficulties with their extraction. 
Russian laws provide local policies with such a multifunctional tool as tax exemptions. In spite of the same possibility to use this instrument, the tax burden in all Russian regions differs so much. To be more exact, each region can use tax exemptions in order to stimulate the production growth, to enhance business activity, or to reduce an unemployment rate, so, they can be extremely different in various provinces from decreasing income tax for bakeries in Krasnodar to initiation tax holidays for fishing boats in Murmansk. The point is that each of these regions can elaborate their own economic strategy using changes in the tax burden as the main instrument of the local policy. 
A current research will focus on examination of the tax burden influence on the total tax collection in some particular regions. The main idea is to use the historical data for estimating the optimal tax burden in order to maximize the tax collection overall. The studied group consists of a limited number of federal subjects which are not the most successful, but have all the possibilities to show better economic results. Today there is no clear evidence about the existing ways to achieve a stable and fast economic growth, because it depends on many different factors, so the idea of this paper is designing a model of tax collection maximization by changing the “tax burden”. But the investigation of tax exemptions will be limited and the attention will be paid to another macroeconomic factors, such as an investment level, people`s income, the balance of the regional budget and others, because they can become a constraining factor for the tax collection growth. In the above statement care has been taken to use the very general term tax collection as an indicator of a regional wealth. In other words, the more tax our government collect, the more it can invest in its residents’ welfare: infrastructure development, new workplaces creation, parks ennobling and snow removal, and many other public goods. The reason of taking the tax amount received in budget as a dependent variable is its direct positive correlation with governmental activity in the public goods production. So, one of the expected results is that tax burden positively correlates with a tax collection volume in each particular region.

Theoretical background
At first sight, Russia has already overcome the most significant economic problems caused by transition to a market economy in 1992, and that is true. However, for the last 20 years, different economic crises are going one by one and steady state is a fairly rare phenomenon for this country. In such tough conditions, some regions continued to perform well in economic indicators, and others, in contrast, were collapsed over and over again. In most federal subjects in Russia human capital, business, services and infrastructure have real developmental problems. That is why they can not reveal their economic potential. One of the reasons was studied by Raevskiy (2006), who addressed the question of formation investment flows in Russia and detected that most of them were generated inside the country. Foreign investment, which is really beneficial to economics, was not existed because investors did not want to risk. In accordance with the above, in comparison with other countries, the foreign investment share in Russia is extremely low, however it is 15% relative to the total investment flow in Russia. Thus, this figure is huge enough to be mentioned. 
The key driver of regional policy is a possibility to use tax exemptions. Although this instrument is very flexible to use, in one Russian region, taxation is very rigid and unhelpful for business, but in another one, it is conversely soft and local business feels relaxed. Moreover, the most interesting thing is that economic performance is not correlates with tax burden, because somewhere business activity is really high despite of complicated situation with taxation, life level or another reasons, and vice versa in another federal subject all the companies absolutely not trying to develop howbeit. Such regions usually show the worst economic performance and become subsidized from federal budget as it found Bezrukov G.G. (2004).  Another problem caused by rigid and inflexible taxation is a non-observed economy. Bondonio`s (2007) essential contribution in this field lies in confirming the Laffer`s theory, which principles were repeatedly confirmed in practice: the higher the tax rate – the lower the tax collection, in case when it has already overcame the optimum point, and it is true in case when we are exploring only the hidden economy. Although renowned economists have proved this statement, in practice we can find many examples, where this rule is not working. If we consider not the only factor, we can see that various macroeconomic indicators can cause different influence on tax collection because of regional special features. Therefore, no matter how many scholars investigated the nature of regional taxation, this issue will stay topical until all the federal subjects will use their economical instruments by the best possible way.  
The problem of tax collection maximization continues to be actual in current studies. The basis for this study proposed by Valinurova (2015) will explain the research process in reviewing the vast literature of this question. She analyzed an investment attractiveness as a functional instrument of regional economic policy. The author found, that changes in tax burden could cause only negative effects: regional budget or local companies will suffer from this measure to some extent. In case when government will offer some benefits to a particular economic sector, it will certainly face to the problem of budget arrears. And vice versa: when some industry suffers from the lack of incentives and has some developmental problems simultaneously having a good potential, local government does not receive the maximal amount of taxes because companies are able to generate greater profits. To my mind, Valinurova (2015) did not pay attention to a number of minor details. The most significant of them is that in Russia we have eighty-five regions, which are different in social, cultural, demographical and geographical aspects. Each of these federal subjects is unique, so, all the models without differentiation of regions by their most common macroeconomic features are incorrect. For example, will it be correct to estimate the average effect of some changes in law for Moscow and Altai republic? No, because regions given above are completely different from size and population to the sources of cash flow formation. From another point of view, Hildebrandt (2012) noticed that the maximization of local tax volume indirectly depends on the number of officially registered firms. He tried to make clear for readers that the more firms are exist – the more tax will be deducted to local budget. Hildebrandt (2012) did not consider the importance of market power. When the quantity of companies increases, the weakest of them are no longer competitive in such tough conditions and are not able to generate profits and to pay taxes. Foundations of economic theory says that perfect competition is the best state for customers, but when we can see, that some markets are overcrowded, it is not beneficial for business nor for the government.  Also focusing too narrowly on the angle of the problem can only partially explain the tax collection level, because we know that numerous other factors exist. 
Keeping in mind the most common mistakes of previous economists, a new model will be based on investigating only a limited number of federal subjects with wisely chosen variables, which will take into account all the actual economic problems, available and possible to solve. In accordance with this position, I would like to estimate some regions, including Perm Krai, in order to answer the question of how to develop and lead to the top a particular federal subject, which is allocating its resources by not the most optimal way. 

Methodology 
In spite of numerous attempts at analyzing ways of maximization tax collection, in this study I will use fundamentally new approach for this research field. The research methodology will be based on the multivariate regression analysis. According to this method, it is possible not only to find the links between the researched variables, but also to estimate the level of their influence on the tax collection level and compare their contribution to the dependent variable. It is interesting in terms of checking the most influential instrument of tax collection in a particular group of regions. Also this study will be connected to the cluster analysis, which will help to avoid the problem of incorrect data comparison.  The empirical research will be set in frames of twelve Russian regions, which are similar in the level of economic potential and the investor`s risk according to the research of rating agency “Expert RA”. In order to consider the tax collection level in these federal subjects, I will take the data from the official source: the Federal State Statistics service. For this research, it will be appropriate to use the data from 2000 to 2015, in view of the fact that the earlier data has been collected during the deep economic crisis in Russia in nineties. Neutralizing the impact of the market economy formation period in Russia will help to avoid the incorrect data in the results of the study. 

Predicted outcomes and limitations of research.
The main target of this study is demonstrating the negative correlation dependence between tax collection and tax burden in this group. The second key reason to do this research is to prove that in this particular group of regions investment attractiveness is not a fundamental macroeconomic factor. Current research is limited by the fact that all the regions are dependent on the global economic crisis, the effect of which affected the macroeconomic performance all over the Russia in the middle of 00-ies and the current economic crisis, which was started in February 2014 after the annexation of Crimea. Taking into account the effect of such phenomenon is very difficult, because it is not possible to measure and estimate the direct influence of them on each region. This question has been hotly debated time and again, but the result is that both of crises could bring lots of problems to one federal subject and lots of benefits to another. The research gets more restricted by chosen variable of people`s wealth. Trying to avoid multicollinearity and endogenity problems, it is necessary to choose the life level coefficient, not the average regional salary. The existence of such a coefficient is very convenient, but it is really controversial, because it was elaborated by social scientists and can be not independent in some cases.  Thus, in one way this coefficient can lower the risk of tax arrears, but in the other way the presumed effect could be weighted incorrectly from region to region and it is impossible to predict or measure. Verifying and amplifying the knowledge of tax collection maximization ways also can be restricted by uncertain definition and measure of an investment attractiveness in each particular region. This coefficient exercises a decisive influence on the investigated variable, but all the investigated regions are similar in this term, so, it will be embarrassing to consider its impact. 