Introduction.
At present scholars hold quite various doctrines about the role of corporate news in financial markets. Most research in this dramatically evolving sphere confirm the view that the share prices are predictable. A lot of consistent patterns, discovered on empirical data of many stock markets, confirm this conclusion. However, if the stock price is predictable, then trading companies can use these laws to their advantage. Companies can manage the share prices, because they will know in advance what effect will follow the announcement of company's corporate news. Corporate news release is one of the most important channels of communication between company's information space and stock markets. 
Study of the corporate news influence on companies' share price is the subject of numerous studies. There are theories whose authors treat the corporate news mainly from the emotional colored perspective (good or bad news) or the content of this announcement (i.e. of which event to report the news - the release a new product, merger, share repurchase or strike at the factory) or news release context (i.e. phase of the stock market - the decline or rise) and many other circumstances. For that reason, systematic effort will be made to review the bulk of literature relating to influence of corporate news on share price for a more complete answer to this question. In the present research, the governing organizing principle in my analysis will obviously be consolidation, and my research interest will centre on bringing together the results of studies and applying them to Russian oil industry. Here the emphasis will not so much be laid on working out an integral analysis of the factors but rather on investigating in some depth relation between release of corporate news and changes of stock price in the Russian oil industry.
In conformity with the tradition of financial studies, in the framework of my project the immediate aims presuppose exploring various approaches to the problem of share price formation that contemporary theorists have advocated, and revealing the most relevant model of empirical research for the Russian oil industry. Considering the continuous interest in financial markets, it seems worthwhile to follow and develop certain study of Skinner, D, and Sloan, R. in "Earnings disclosures and stockholder lawsuits". Moreover, since there is currently much undeniable concern for shareholders' behavior issues, another specific aim of the research involves a necessity to consider nuances of relationships companies with investors - the factor that on a more general level is increasingly seen as essentially relevant in the financial theory. 
To conduct current research the dataset of largest Russian companies in the period from 2012 to 2015 should be collected. Based on these data regression analysis will be conducted and there will be shown the impact of corporate news on the share price of companies.
The problem posed is of great interests for managers, who use corporate news release. for effective manage the value of the company's share price. This study will involve the newest available data and hence represent the contemporary relevant approach to the Russian financial market. At the same time this study might be useful for investors who want to make a profit by predicting the behavior of other players.

Theoretical background
Today the economy of any developed country tends come closer to the model of  market economy. The basic principle of the market economy is open and full information access for all economic agents. All investors have a full set of information about a company whose shares they buy. Unfortunately, today's economy has not yet reached the stage of market economy and many companies use investors unawareness to increase their own profits. However, not only companies can control investors. Investors can form a specific behavior strategy to maximize their own utility with the help of knowledge about market reaction to certain events. One of the most important channels of communication between information space of the company and market is announcement of corporate news.
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. Since the influence of corporate news on the share price is extremely complex it is appropriate to frame it - resorting to Russian oil industry. In recent studies of Western scientists numerous attempts have been made to give a broader theoretical basis to the research of stock market reaction to corporate news and to revise traditional ideas about its nature. Modern researchers have recovered a specific group of factors that determine the character of the corporate news influence on the company's share price.
The first, most evident factor it is type of news ("good" or "bad''). Studies have shown that when good news comes on financial market, then the company's stock price will increase. On the other hand, when bad news comes on the market this will cause that the company's market value will fall. However, criteria by which the financial market determines good or bad news, are not obvious and elementary. Some researchers are fixed asymmetry financial market reaction to good and bad news. Asymmetric means that the market reacts more strongly to bad news (in absolute value) than the good news. The influence of  corporate news ("good" or "bad") on the companies' share price is considered in a huge amount of research, but each time this effect is being studied in combination with other factors. For example, in the study of Skinner and Sloan (2002) good and bad corporate news were considered in combination with the type of shares. In a treatise of Conrad, Cornell and Landsman (2002) studied the news based on market conditions (recession or rise). In this regard, determine the effect of the quality of news in such "complex" investigations is difficult to achieve.
Another factor, which economists pay much attention, is the degree of proliferation news, i.e. how a wide range of investors known the news. This factor is very important because the totality of investors determine the companies' market value based on the received information. In order to determine the extent of proliferation news, researchers use the fact of public announcement or analytical review release. For example, the study of Chan (2003) and Pritamani and Singhal (2001) is based on the fact of public announcements, and Hong et al. (2000) are using an analytical review of the companies.
Separate large block contains studies on the market reaction to the news of different corporate events. Studies show that the announcement of the company to conduct share buybacks or dividend policy change, or issue debt instruments and  etc. have a certain influence on the company’s market value. Moreover, researchers have recorded relation between type of corporate events and character of changes in the company’s market value, which are resistant to different data sets. Event type affects not only the amount of change in market value and its direction, but also on  the character of investors reaction, namely: whether event is accompanied by the lack of market reaction (underreaction) or excessively reaction (overreactoin).This issue is discussed in the works of, for example, Michaely and Womack (1999), Womack (1996), Michaely et al. (1995), Ikenberry and Ramnath (2002), and Ikenberry et al. (1996), Loughran and Ritter (1995), and Spiess and Affleck-Graves (1995), Bernard and Thomas (1989), Ritter (1991) and many others.
Several studies devoted to study of the influence of corporate news on the share price, depending on the share type of company. In this case, researchers divide shares into two types: glamour stocks and value stocks. The main idea is that investors have different opinions and respond to corporate news for these two companies types, as expectations for these types of companies are also different, and what is good for mature companies (value stocks) is not good for a developing company (glamour stocks).Here I can note studies of Conrad, Cornell and Landsman (2002), and Skinner and Sloan (2002).
Current state of stock market is another factor, which reflects the expectations and preferences of investors as well as determines character of the influence of corporate news on the share price. State of stock market ("drop" or "rise") is an important context of the news announcement. In times of recession and raising, investors react differently to good and bad news. This issue is discussed in the study of Conrad, Cornell and Landsman (2002).
Investor type that prevails in the company's ownership structure also determines the reaction character  of the market value on corporate news. Institutional and individual investors have different information and monetary resources, use different investment strategies geared to different investment horizons, so theoretically character of the reaction for different types of investors also must be different. The empirical side of this question is considered in the works of Cohen, Gompers and Vuolteenaho (2002), Ekholm (2002) and Lee (1992).
As can be seen, relevant researches devoted to the complex analysis of the influence of corporate news on the share price are almost nonexistent. For this reason, in present research I will try to solve this problem and bring together the results of all investigations in order to obtain the most complete answer to the question: what is the influence of corporate news on the share price in Russian oil industry. Selected factors are key to the future construction of regression models and empirical research.

Methodology and procedure.
This part of the proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out this study giving special emphasis to the analysis of the data collected. It should be made clear at the outset that in this case, there is no consensus among scholars. In this regard, I will use the most popular methodology in this research area - a regression analysis model. Equation which describes the usual relationship between dependent variable (share price) and set of independent variables is constructed using regression analysis.
For the research, I identified four blocks of factors that determine influence character of corporate news to market value of company:
1. Parameters of  corporate news i.e. facts that come on financial market;
2. Distribution channels for news that describe how the news reaches the market;
3. The situation in which investors perceive news, i.e. where, in what context the news were analyzed;
4. Type of investors i.e. who receives and uses corporate news for investment decisions;
To construct a regression model that will be based on these factors, I have collected a database that includes information about the major public Russian oil companies. The dependent variable, namely, the shares price of companies is publicly available, and it is possible to take the whole data set. One example of website where you can download the data array on shares prices is www.cbonds.ru. The independent variables (regressors)area different kinds of corporate news. They are placed separately, and it is very difficult to collect them into a single array. For this reason I was looking through each news website separately. Based on previous research in this field I also collected control variables, which are designed to improve the quality of the model.
To perform regression analysis and constructing model I will use EViews econometric system. This system helps to make a preliminary analysis and relevant tests of data. After analysis, the system EViews builds regression equation and indicates the level of significance of the factors. Using level of significance we can determine what kind of corporate news  have influence on the share price in Russian oil industry and determine the character of this influence.

Predicted outcomes
In this study, I will attempt to unite disparate empirical data, identify significant factors and determine the nature of their influence on market reaction - and ultimately present an integral picture. This will allow me to develop a conceptual model that describes how some type of corporate news influences on the company value in different conditions.
The model and methodology that will be presented in research are intended to help companies pre-define the market reaction to the announcement of particular event. It is necessary for companies because they can correct potential negative consequences and eventually better manage its market value.

Limitations of research
It is important to understand that a single project cannot provide a reliable basis in general because this study includes some subjective factors such as reaction of investors. In this regard, managers need to understand that the market pays attention not only to the "sign" of corporate news. However, it is impossible to consider all factors in the construction of the regression model, so I picked only factors which have the greatest influence on the dependent variable. 
The investigated data are a sample of the greatest Russian oil companies, because these data are publicly available and can be traced. Unfortunately, not all companies provide clear and comprehensive information about its activities. To improve the quality model and increase the research relevance it is possible to  expand the number of companies and descriptive variables.