Introduction
Different organizations have great potential for development, and global targets for business expansion in the modern world. The organization needs money to be able to implement the development plan, which the company can receive by means of the bank credit. There is a question about the borrower solvency before the bank staff, as well as the bank tries to estimate risks of a non-return money. Unfortunately, in the unstable financial circumstances, many companies can not repay the loan on-time than join the problem assets list. It must be admitted, that there are different work ways with each area of problem and potentially problem assets. Bank monitors the debt payment by the borrower in the default event or the criteria's number occurrence, the borrower can be attributed to a particular problem area, depending on which is chosen tactics for further work with the borrower. Namely, the criteria seriousness defines the problem zones. But there is a question, that the updated problem criteria and work plan coordination has been delayed for a long period of time. And there are small flaws in the work process with potentially problem debtors, which will undoubtedly make it possible to optimize the process. It will be interesting to concentrate on this problem and create new method of work with potentially problem assets processes or modify the existing method. 
The present paper focuses on work processes with potentially problem assets in the West Ural Sberbank of Russia. In writing this paper I had two main goals, as identification of factors that affect on the borrower classification to potentially problem area, and create an optimization methods of work with such type of assets. 
The central goal of this paper is an improved work plan with potentially problem borrowers. In the present paper it is necessary to solve the following questions: 
1) how is the work process with potentially problem borrowers build at the moment? 
2) what criteria affect on the borrower classification to a potential problem area? 
3) what optimization tools can be applied? 
4) how to apply optimization tools to the existing system? 
5) whether is it possible to create a new plan of work with this category of borrowers? 
To answer these questions, it is needed to study whole work with potentially problem assets process, identify suitable optimization techniques and create a new work with potentially problem assets method. In this paper will be used such methods, as the literature and the bank's regulatory documents theoretical analysis, strategic planning and analysis tools. Of course, the company financial position not only affects on its functioning, but also on the country's economy. Optimized method will allow the bank to promptly respond to changes in the borrower financial position, as well as to prevent the process of bankruptcy of the company, or vice versa to accelerate it. In order to understand whether the new developed method will really help the bank to work with debtors, it is necessary to estimate the time and labor costs, as well as to evaluate the economic impact.	

Theoretical background
Based on the fact that this paper is intended to create an improved model of the work with potentially problem assets process in the West Ural Sberbank of Russia, furthermore the main literature part comprises internal Sberbank of Russia regulatory documents. It should be noted at the outset that I am fully aware of the complexity of the task because in the economic literature, ways of work with problem bank debt is paid little attention. Each bank develops its own internal regulations governing the work with each type of debt. Before moving on to the proposed optimization work methods with problem and potentially problem assets consideration by others, it is needed to define the specifications of these terms. It must be admitted that each bank sets its own problem and potential problem debts definition, as well as a strategy to work with them, so there is no clear the problem and potential problem debts definition.
The West Ural Sberbank of Russia determines the potential problem debts, as a deviation from the originally planned events that do not cause significant non-payment debt, but may complicate the return in conjunction with the more weighty criteria. Bank defines the problem borrowers zone only if certain criteria are considered in the regulations. (Regulations ¹ 278-6-ð)
Smulov, Nurzat (2009) defines badly loan as a loan that has a number of features, considering that it raises a well-found concerns number about the return of principal and interest on it. The authors believe that the banks' majority observed the same factors that contribute to the problem and potentially problem assets, as well as offering its own model to prevent these situations. So, as to avoid the potentially problematic debt emergence, they propose to create software, which in automatic and manual mode will collect data on the borrowers financial situation and will systematically monitor the activities performed, which in turn will reveal deviations in the early stages. 
After considering the definitions of the problem and potential problem debts, it is needed to define an existing strategy with the potential problem assets in the West Ural Sberbank of Russia and analyze optimization methods proposed by other authors. In accordance with Regulations 2000-5, the work process with potentially problem assets is carried out in the software CRM, where each participant can trace the process which caused the borrowers' classification criteria to this group, as well as to see which work is being done at the moment. It should be noted that each stage is limited in duration, and the team is created only when certain problem criteria, otherwise work in the debtor carries out a client manager. 
According to Smulov and Nurzat (2010), it is easier to prevent the potentially problem debt emergence, then to look for ways to resolve it. To solve the problems associated with the problem and potentially problem debts occurrence authors propose banks to create dependent bank's structure, which will be thoroughly engaged in work with such assets. The main purpose of the structure is dependent warning credit transfer in problem category. 
Finally, the recent study by Kosinov (2013) has shown that as long as the credit institution develops its own internal regulations governing the work with potentially problem and problem debts, without regulatory state support, it can be argued that workload elaboration within the bank regardless is not in sight problem and potentially problem debt reduction in the general.
Somehow the work process with potentially problem assets in the West Ural Sberbank of Russia are the employees from different bank departments teamwork, such as loans division, client managers, legal department and security department and others, depending on the complexity of the situation. Jeff Sutherland (2016) believes that teamwork will be effective through the Scrum methodology implementation. This technique helps organization to create high-performance teams, which may be self-contained, multi-functional and always be in perfections' search, which has no limit. The main models' idea is that the command specifies a tasks list required to meet the ultimate objective, establishes its own work rhythm, and conducts daily meetings to discuss achievements, problems and plans. Scrum is the unique model introduction result of the full players' cooperation capable qualitatively solve tasks in a short time. Nils Brede Moe et al. (2010) finding that Scrum implementation requires not only the worker's reorientation, but also management reorientation, which in turn requires time and resources, but it is a necessary condition for the success. In addition, they find that a Scrum team is given significant authority and responsibility for many aspects of their work, such as planning, scheduling, assigning tasks to members, and making decisions. 

Methodology and procedure    
This part of the research proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study. It must be admitted at the outset that the methodology includes such techniques as literature and research theoretical analysis, statistical analysis methods, prediction and others, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing.
It is needed also to consider the further step-by-step method of analysis. At the first step, it is more importantly to analyze the literature and research theory in order to understand the concepts and the work process with potentially problem assets. Articles analysis by different authors will also review existing optimization techniques and will help the organization to create an improved work model.
The framework for analysis is the sampling of borrowers based on several criteria. It is necessary to analyze whether the borrowers' problem area changes from 2013 to 2016 and what factors influenced on these changes, in order to obtain a basis for creating the optimized model. At this stage it will be revealed common criteria to refer the borrower attribution to the potential problem area. The information collected will be systematized in order to form several full cases to be studied during the research.
After the borrowers sample determining, and the most common criteria necessary to propose options for optimizing existing work method based on the data obtained during the literature and research theory analysis. Firstly, the situation will be analyzed by the Six Sigma method, which is defined by Jeroen de Mast et al. (2012) as "an approach for problem solving. This improvement procedure is generally known under the acronym DMAIC, standing for Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control." The second part will include the SWOT and SIPOC analysis methods that allows to get the strengths and weaknesses, and the opportunities and threats for further development. Based on a combination of the results, bank can describe the problem "from a height" and determine the boundaries of the project, as well as can create the most successful strategy. (T. C. Krehbiel, 2009) At the next stage in order to minimize the time and labor costs cause-and-effect (C & E) diagram will be used, which will helps the organization to identify general excessive cycle time's causes. 
A set of presented techniques will determine ways to optimize the work process with potentially problem assets and may show the existing models' shortcomings.

Predicted outcomes   
This part of the proposal is organized to report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. Worth mentioning that banks do not have well-developed methods for dealing with potentially problem assets, therefore, this paper will be useful for the West Ural Sberbank of Russia. The current work model with potentially problem assets takes a lot of time, people involved in the communicating process can discuss the process only through the CRM program, and therefore can not fully know the details of the situation. The creation and application of the optimized model will allow the West Ural Sberbank of Russia to save time and employees' effort, but more importantly, will help the bank to notice the negative deviation from the borrower in the early stages, and therefore start the work in time with the borrower because the bank is interested to the borrower's financial condition was stable. It is expected to be revealed the most comprehensive list of criteria, which affects not only the borrower assignment to potentially problem area, but further impairs its rating. And also considered an option with the design team for the Scrum method creation.   

Limitations of the research
There are many gaps in our understanding of these processes, which are caused by a few open sources, as the study process is developed individually for each bank, and all information is contained in the internal regulations. The following studies' limitation is that in the borrowers' analyzing process they can get into another problem area and we can not analyze it in connection with a large amount of data, and since the investigation period is each quarter from January 2013 to October 2016. However, we should end on optimistic note and say that despite the following limitations, we can create the optimized work process with potentially problem assets. 