Introduction
Within the present environment of increasingly aggressive competition, customers are becoming the key element in forming a company’s competitive position. Since customer loyalty is believed to gain increased market share, revenues, and reduce cost in acquiring customers, it is regarded as one of the most important competitive advantage. Taking this fact as vital, many companies focus on customer loyalty investigation and try to develop and implement a customer reward program.
Customer loyalty is far from being a modern term, and it goes back to the times of Roman Empire when generals used loyalty of their army to get political leverage. Customer loyalty is one of the powerful tools to gain control over people. Nowadays, each of us is involved in this or that loyalty program and it is impossible to evade the influence of this marketing policy. It is necessary to understand the way companies work attracting us as customers. It is last but not least to comprehend methods companies apply to take control over customers. Currently major and minor market players fighting for a market share hold a loyal customer base as their main weapon. Investment in developing this base is of prime importance in companies, as customer loyalty has become a valuable asset in competitive markets, including the hospitality industry. 
Customer loyalty is a concept that is defined as a consumer’s loyal attitude and behavior towards a company, despite competitors providing alternative products or services in the market (Oliver, 1999). Many scientists studied customer loyalty and the way it worked. They distinguished several approaches: behavioral and attitudinal. Behavioral loyalty characterizes a customer who constantly attends a company with no emotional involvement and commitment, and his regular purchases come out of practical reasons. Positive attitude or commitment is the key criterion in discerning attitudinal loyalty, characterized by emotional involvement and satisfaction (Hofmeyr, Rice, 2000). These two approaches were combined in another one - the complex approach to advance customer loyalty study to a new level. Within the framework, I will confine the investigation to the last approach. 
Keeping customers loyal is very important for company’s survival, but to create customer commitment to the company is a big challenge, since there are different motives to come back to the company. To be close to the customer and manage successful investments in working out loyalty programs, it is necessary to investigate customer’s behavior, and find out motives leading to repeated purchases. However, it is necessary to mention, that emotional commitment and motives to make repeated purchases vary depending on industry. For the following reasons, the present investigation will largely be confined to motives and interests of the customer in the hospitality industry.
Therefore, the general purpose of the further analysis with regard to customer loyalty is to reveal motives that can induce customers to apply to the hotel again. In order to meet this goal it is necessary to perform the following tasks:
1. To review scientific literature within the research framework on customer loyalty and customer loyalty programs;
2. To explore consumer behavior in the hotel;
3. To reveal motives which influence customer loyalty;
4. To interpret the results received.  
The research outcome will be of prime significance to managers in hotels of the similar hotel standards, as it can be used to work out an effective rewards program in compliance with the customer’s motivation. 

Theoretical background
The basis for the present study is provided by the large body of literature on the customer loyalty and loyalty programs. “Customer loyalty is a customer’s attachment to a brand, store, manufacturer, service provider or other entities based on favorable attitudes and behavioral responses such as repeated purchase” (Baran, Galka, Strunk, 2008, p. 25). The most popular strategy to enhance customer loyalty is loyalty program. Loyalty programs are designed to improve customer’s satisfaction and commitment. A considerable amount of valuable work has been done to provide a solid grounding for effective loyalty program development and to give a firm basis to the profound impact of loyalty programs on market competition. 
This review draws upon the past research to get crucial knowledge and findings related to the customer behavior and attitude in the context of customer loyalty. It is exceedingly important to understand the decisive breakthrough achieved by leading scientists within the framework of customer loyalty.  
According to Aaker (1996) a highly loyal customer base promotes larger sales and, as a consequence, brings enhanced profits, so customer loyalty is the key notion in terms of this theoretical background. The approach advanced by Aaker was accepted as the governing principle in Burgeson’s theory and exerted great influence on his theoretical thinking about customer loyalty. Burgeson believes that having loyal customers is more profitable for the company than finding new ones (Oliver, 1999). The approach in question required joint efforts of other scholars such as Kumar and Shah (2004). The scientists arrived at a logical conclusion that placing emphasis only on customer retention is completely erroneous. Instead of investing resources in keeping loyal customers, the company should pay special attention to profitability, otherwise the company can get bankrupt.
The concept of customer loyalty is widespread in scientific literature dedicated to customer relationship management (CRM). Previous studies proposed that CRM strategies exert a positive influence on customer loyalty and satisfaction. As a consequence, CRM strategies have been widely adopted by companies that aim at enhancing performance and withstanding the pressure of market competition.  One of the important roles of CRM is to enhance the quality of the relationship between the customer and the company (Hennig-Thurau, Klee, 1997). Loyalty programs are popular tools employed by companies all over the world as part of their CRM strategies to improve relationship quality. Loyalty programs assist to reinforce relationship to generate behavioral and attitudinal loyalty. The latter is one of the key objectives every company strives for.
The concept of customer loyalty is first traced to the work by professor of Harvard University – Royce, who investigated the role of loyalty concept in business. He determined loyalty as “a deeply held commitment to rebuy or re-patronize a preferred product consistently in the future, thereby causing repetitive same brand purchasing, despite situational influences and marketing efforts having the potential to cause switching behavior” (Oliver, 1999, p. 57). Further study in forming various approaches to the loyalty concept includes complementary efforts made by different scholars.  
The theoretical review proceeds with the explanation of customer loyalty in the context of different approaches. Different scholars put forward two main approaches: behavioral and attitudinal. Thå behavioral approach considers customer loyalty as a long interaction with the company in the form of repeated purchases (Neal, 1999). However, behavioral approach neglects essential motives of the buyer to make repeated purchases. It should be understood that several repeated purchases might not always lead to the true loyalty. It is profoundly important to get to know and to investigate customer’s motives, as it enables us to determine whether the loyalty is true or not. 
A better explanation of customer loyalty concept was suggested by Oliver (1999). Among others, he critically reviewed the behavioral approach and put forward a new definition of customer loyalty. As Oliver stated, the behavioral approach is vague and uncertain as it ignores psychological meaning of loyalty and thus lacks explanatory power. He suggested that the behavioral approach should be theoretically challenged. The alternative standpoint suggested by the scientist is an attitudinal approach, which considers an emotional loyalty, namely, the consumer's commitment to the company. 
The very core of the attitudinal approach is best understood in terms of feelings, emotions, opinions on a product or service or the company in general. Oliver determined loyalty as “a deeply held commitment to rebuy a preferred product/service consistently in the future, despite the situational factors and marketing campaigns in the same product category” (Oliver, 1999, p. 36). However, Oliver’s approach to customer loyalty seems to be confusing. Firstly, it becomes really difficult to assess customer loyalty since emotions are individual and subjective. Moreover, it is necessary to outline that high emotional loyalty does not always lead to repeated purchase.
A better option to define customer loyalty was suggested by Dick and  Bazu in 1994. They gave a complex vision of customer loyalty to have combined two aspects: emotional and attitudinal. In conformity with their definition, customer loyalty does not only imply personal commitment to the company but cooperation with the company on the regular basis as well. According to Kumar and Shah (2004), the transition of attitudinal loyalty into purchase behavior is especially important for a company as it turns in tangible returns that can hardly be reached through attitudinal loyalty alone. Therefore, the behavioral aspect of loyalty is important for an organization to make profit, and attitudinal aspect, in turn, takes place to create an emotional commitment to the company and does not necessarily result in any purchase. Currently to stimulate consumer loyalty, many companies adopt various strategies, and the most popular among them is the loyalty program. 
In the course of time, the number of companies to implement loyalty programs has increased. Uncles and Hammond stressed (2003) that customer loyalty arose due to the loyalty programs in the form of financial and relationship rewards. The authors determined the main objectives of loyalty programs. The first one is to increase incomes with the help of increased purchases. The second is to maintain the existing customer base by building communications between existing customers and the company. Yi and Jeon (2003) also outlined the goal of loyalty programs: “to establish a high level of customer retention by providing satisfaction and value to a certain customers” (p. 232). According to Butscher (2002) loyalty programs are built to create emotional relationship between customer and company. According to Uncles, Dowling and Hammond “customer loyalty programs are profitable for the company since loyal customers buy more frequently and buy more products. This is a highly significant factor for companies since most companies are profit-seeking” (p. 297). 
Since every industry has its own features, loyalty program development requires individual consideration, as it should account for special features of certain industry. Moreover, it is necessary to investigate customer motives in definite company to understand the basis for customer loyalty program development. Therefore, it seems appropriate to focus on the practical side of this issue in certain industry – a hospitality one.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal explains methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study and lays special emphasis on the data analysis. As mentioned above, the main purpose of this research is to reveal factors that encourage customers to come back to the definite hotel. 
It will serve the purpose of the present inquiry if the data is collected by means of qualitative methods. Qualitative methods let us gain information and thereby, obtain a deeper understanding of the research problem. The research will focus on primary data, which includes semi-structured interviews with customers right at the hotel. The secondary data will be obtained by documentary analysis. The semi-structured interview illuminates special aspects about the customer behavior by using guideline, but at the same time enables us to put a question in a free form and therefore, get more valuable information about motives of the respondent. The secondary data is documentation that consists of articles, reports and web sites of the hotel.  Such a politics helps to investigate additional valuable information about the customer and the company itself that is impossible to get from the interview. 
When dealing with the qualitative data, there exists no unified rules to analyze it. Unlike the qualitative data analysis, there is no formulas or criteria to define significance of the results. Within the framework it is appropriate to employ a kind of cross analysis, when the data is collected and arranged to convenience. Further, it is necessary to interpret the organized data to arrive to the stage of qualitative analyzing. While interpreting, the data collected and described will gain some sense. Since service quality is the decision-making factor in the hospitality industry, the following customer’s attitudes will become the focus of interpretation: opinions of the general service quality and impressions of the personnel.

Predicted outcomes
The final part of the proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the methods introduced. As mentioned above service quality is the decision-making factor in the hospitality industry. Therefore, the findings of this study suggest that the principle motive for a customer to come back to the definite hotel next time, is the service quality, as well as the atmosphere that keeps the customer happy and keen to return.  Basic points in the quality service are quality of food, overall cleanliness, transfer service. However, what is of the prime value for every visitor, is the relationship of the hotel personnel. Namely, the way every customer is treated at the hotel, from booking till checking-in and checking-out, as well as his wishes and requests are met within his stay. These factors induce emotional commitment to the hotel. However, it might be expected that guests also can be influenced by economic benefit such as better prices offered to them. This factor induces behavioral loyalty. The facts obtained will be carefully tested and expanded by using an overt observation.

Limitations of research
There are a number of limitations in the research to be taken into account. Firstly, the diploma practice will be restricted in time. The student is given one month only to accomplish this research work that, consequently, is likely to affect the number of conducted interviews with hotel guests. Moreover, time restriction can influence the results’ accuracy. There are some factors that may be not taken into consideration and eluded our attention. To get precise results interviews should be carried out in different period of the tourist season. 
The study is performed within the limits of one separate hotel. Therefore, the findings received can be applied in other hotels only with the same standards, but on the same territory. The results about customer motivation may not be applied to other types of hotels.

