Introduction
High quality of services positively influences consumer decision making, this fact is proved by numerous researches of last years. The condition of high-quality services promotes consumers loyalty and satisfaction which, in turn, improves profitability of the service provider. Besides, service quality also influences on company competitiveness and its financial performance. Eventually, high-quality improvement is a key determinant for success of the organization in today's competitive market. For maintenance of the taken company position it is necessary to provide high-quality services which will help to keep old clients and to attract new. For this reason managers in service trade shall draw close attention to a service quality problem. With the increasing dynamism and a competitive capability of a business environment, the growing number of the companies pays attention to creation, management, determination and increase in a customer loyalty.
The main purpose of this work is theoretical and methodological justification of interrelation of service quality management and competitiveness of the company. According to a goal the following tasks were formulated:
1) To consider theoretical approaches to the concept "quality management of services" and to reveal its role in activity of the organization;
2) To analyze approaches to the concept "competitiveness";
3) To reveal interrelation in approaches to quality management of services and competitiveness of the company;
4) To analyze a role of assessment of quality of services in the organizations and the existing assessment methods.
Object of the research is activity of the company in the field of service quality management. 
Subject of the research is the set of factors defining quality level of the provided services which influences the company level competitiveness.
It is necessary to pay attention to the main definitions of this paper. International Organization for Standartization considers the term «quality» as a degree of compliance of inherent characteristics to requirements (ISO 9000-2008). «Competition» is a situation in which someone is trying to win something or be more successful than someone else. «Service» is the act of dealing with customers in a shop, restaurant, or hotel by taking their orders, showing or selling them goods. «Service» is a result of the suppliers and consumers interaction (ISO 9001, 2011).

Theoretical background
A large body of literature on service quality provides a basis for the present study.
The service is a process of submitting a number of procedures to the consumer. In ISO 9001 interpretations of service are formulated as result of, at least, one action which is surely carried out at interaction of the supplier and consumer. (ISO 9001, 2011)
The main characteristics of service are: 
1) Intangibility. The service cannot be touched, seen or heard. In this regard uncertainty of consumers concerning services is always higher, than at purchase of goods.
2) Inherence. Unlike goods which until consumption already passed several stages of production the service is always provided and consumed at the same moment. The service cannot be separated from its source thereof the significant role is played by the person providing service, its performer. Perception of service can be changed because of dissatisfaction the behavior of the person who renders it.
3) Inconstancy of quality. Quality of service varies depending on the subject, time, the place, conditions of granting and other factors. One of the most important tasks of the company operating in service trade is decrease in fluctuations of this inconstancy by means of continuous training of personnel, decrease in amount of works and other ways.
4) Fragility. Services are provided at once time, without a possibility of storage and reuse (Novitsky, 2004).
Combining definitions of quality and service, it is possible to offer the following definition: Quality of service is a set of the service properties defining its ability to meet the established or estimated requirements of the consumer. Then Service quality management is the coordinated activity of the service organization directed to implementation of requirements concerning services quality. 
Service quality is based on satisfaction of consumer’s requirements, which includes not only requirements, but also various desires, preferences and expectations of the client (Saleem & Raja, 2014). Respectively, quality of service directly depends on as far as it will satisfy all tastes of the client and will anticipate his expectations. If consumer expectations surpassed real execution of service process, the satisfaction will not occur. If expectations were met or results surpassed expectations, the consumer will be satisfied. (Bitner, 1990)
Authors allocate different components of service quality. In the most general sense, quality of service includes two main components: technical and functional. Technical quality is the actual result of receiving service, what remains at the consumer after everything. Functional quality characterizes how the service was provided to the consumer by provider (Oh, H., 1999).
More expanded and detailed model of service quality components was created by scientists of the State University in Florida, M. Brady and J. Kronin on the basis of a qualitative research. According to the model offered by them, the quality of service perceived by the consumer consists of three main components: interaction quality, quality of an external environment and technical quality of result. Each of these components also consists of three subcomponents.
The concepts "quality" and "competitiveness" are very closely interconnected – their synthesis is favorable and lucrative both to the producer, and to the consumer. For the proof of this statement we will consider modern classifications of factors which influence competitiveness, and will analyze what place take quality among them (Zairi, 2000).
Assessment of service quality is an important and integral part of service quality management (Gremler & Brown, 1996). In the most general understanding, assessment of service quality is a judgment of as far as these services are capable to meet consumers requirements. When it considers from formal positions, then it is set of the procedures and operations comprising the list of service quality indicators on which the analysis will be made.
Assessment of service quality allows to exercise control of work quality in the company, provides a basis for adoption of administrative decisions by the management, helps with receiving feedback between the company and consumers, and also between the management and employees that is necessary for successful development of any service organization. 
Complexity of this research consists that there is no still uniform methodology of service quality assessment. There is a set of approaches and techniques which are focused on various aspects of service quality and there is not present uniform which could unite everything.
In general assessment of quality can be two types: internal and external. Internal assessment (or self-audit) is the comprehensive analysis of service quality, qualities of all services made by the organization. In the most cases the department or service of quality management is engaged in internal audit. External audit is made by other party as services consumers, various federal services, the employed experts and other persons can act. External audit can be voluntary (when the company wishes to investigate level of service quality by independent persons) and obligatory (regular checks of government services). Also it can be made during the benchmarking which is carried out by other rival organizations concerning this company.
One of the most effective methods of service quality assessment is the technique of SERVQUAL (service quality) developed by Parashuraman, Berry and Zeytmal in 1985. This methodology is based on "model of divergences" - Gap-model which is also created by these authors. The basis of this model is formula: . Respectively, there is a gap, a deviation between the expected and perceived quality (Kim, 2002).

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. It should be noted at the outset that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing.
In this research such methods as the analysis of literature, comparison, synthesis of information, the analysis of documentation, the analysis of questioning and observation will be used.
The importance of the research objective cannot be overstated. The main aim of study is to assess and determine how clients estimate service quality of the rendered services and how it affects company competitiveness. Conducting of research should include several tasks:
1. To create methodology, using the statistical analysis of quality research and a customer loyalty by means of which it would be possible to estimate impact of service quality on company competitiveness. 
2. To determine impact of service quality on a company competitiveness. The used methods are the analysis of scientific literature, questionnaire and the statistical analysis.
3. To develop recommendations for the company which will help it to manage quality correctly.
In order to collect the required data a questionnaire was developed based on the SERVQUAL model, which refers to the evaluation of the quality of service. The study uses the SERVQUAL approach to examine the gap between customers’ general expectations of a service and their perceptions of the service received by a specific service provider (Newman, 2001). In particular, this model is a gauge of how customers perceive a company’s quality of service when they receive it (Triplett, 2007). This measurement is achieved through a comparison between customers’ expectations for how they should be provided a service and what they ultimately obtain (Gibson, 2009). Thanks to this research we will carry out a quality evaluation of services on the example of a certain company. The obtained data on a quality evaluation will be used for identification of interrelation of this indicator with company competitiveness.
   
Predicted Outcomes
Speaking about the future results of the study it should be stated that at the stage of preparing the project proposal there is number of hypotheses which most probably are going to be proved.
Carrying out a research will allow to obtain qualitative data on assessment of services in the certain company. After that dependence between service quality management and competitiveness of the company will be revealed. It is supposed that this dependence is positive.
Hopefully, I will be able to create a rich picture of the service quality impact on the company’s competitiveness and to reveal and describe discrepancies with academic literature. Conclusions and hypotheses drawn from qualitative data may be used as a basis for further research.

Limitations of research
The results of this research have to be interpreted, taking into account some limitations. First of all, data will be collected only from a single company, that’s why the findings of this study might not hold true for other companies. Secondly, it is possible, what not all criteria of the quality assessment will be applied.