Introduction
Land is an important and valuable natural resource serving as a store of wealth and as an input in production. Nowadays land market is a complex mechanism with multiple groups of participants. Land price depends on many factors which are possible to affect it to different extent. The overall goal of this project is to identify the factors influencing land prices. 
Serious shocks in Russian economy that occurred in the early 90s of the last century led to the rejection of exclusive state land ownership which had radically affected the legal system. The passage of various legal acts, the establishment of appropriate institutional structures, the development of the land registry - all combined to contribute to the formation of the land market.
Modern trend for migration from apartments to homesteads is compatible with the development of legal framework. People are leaving the densely populated urban areas and moving into quiet and scenic places in pursuit of the best environmental conditions for raising a family. Those people who are wearied of the hustle and bustle of the city want to have more breathing space and most of them wish to start gardening. Also, in a down economy people are increasingly seeking to make provision themselves by dint of their own grown food, so the desire to have their own land is increasing. It is worth noting that people buy land plots not only for personal use but also for commercial purposes. In such cases, it is useful to know where we can cut costs as entrepreneurs. That is exactly why the study of land market is an essential and a topical subject for research.
An important question of determining the key factors that affect land value is an active area of research at the current time and can be found in numerous papers of different scholars. Most researchers have used hedonic pricing models and econometric analysis in their articles. Studies conducted were not limited by cities, there were also examples of entire countries examined. However, economists have not managed to reach a consensus regarding the determinants of land prices yet. Moreover, according to the results of researches the same factors have had opposite effect on the land prices. This might be due to the usage of different methodologies, as well as countries’ specific characteristics.
I have been studying this issue for two years. This issue is more practical than theoretical. For this very reason this study seems the most interesting for me. This paper may be helpful for investors willing to buy land for commercial use. 
In my research project I have to deal with the following tasks: 
-Identifying the factors affecting the land value
-Identifying the factors with the greatest impact
-Revealing the most expensive area in Perm Region 
-Describing the average land (price, square, distance to city and so on) 
An attempt to analyze and systematize the findings of the researchers in academic literature and to shape a focus of future research is presented in the literature review section. It is followed by a description of the research, methods for data collection and analyses, predicted outcomes and research limitations. 

Theoretical background
The result of the analysis of previous articles in this field will be summarizing table to help me make the choice of factors - independent variables affecting the land price.
According to Larson (2015) price of land in the USA is affected by : the owner of a particular piece of land, the population density in the area and transportation. He claimed that land value reaches its peak in the areas, whose owners are legal entities that sell property in order to maximize profits, as well as in the areas with the highest number of people per square meter. 
A large-scale study was conducted by Agalakov S. (2015). He studied the problem on the example of one of the Russian markets, namely - in Omsk region. He defined that the determinants of the land value include the size of the plot, distance from the regional center for the cities, distance from the district center if the land is located in the rural areas, and population density. At the same time, strangely enough, the distance from the commercial and recreational areas, transportation and distance from the nearest social facilities (educational and medical institutions) were insignificant factors. The author applied the regression analysis using the land value as the dependent variable to produce the results.
It is difficult to overestimate the importance of the research made by J. Jones, J. Peters and J. Thomas (2015). They explore different areas of Brussels; the main determinants are land area, average income of the people living in a particular terrain and car availability. At the same time the availability of the train station, the distance to the administrative center, and the necessity of getting to and from work every day does not have a significant effect on the dependent variable. Authors used linear regression model estimated OLS method. The model is a linear regression was estimated the least squares method. The authors admit the fact that the results cannot be used for fully accurate prediction due to the usage of inadequate and distorted information about the results of the land purchase and sale deals.
A similar study was conducted by P. Sklenika and colleagues (2013). They used data on the Czech Republic as a sample. Applying regression analysis, the authors identified main factors influencing the price of land: area, population, transport interchanges, the fertility of land in a particular area and the time required to move from the land plot to the administrative center.
N. Keir  and B. Portnov (2016) also considered transportation to be one of the main determinants of land value. In addition, they discovered that land value increases along with the rise of the population growth rate and the availability of neighbor houses. It is quite oddly that migration rate, the interest rate on consumer loans and the average income of the population are inversely proportional to the value of land in the study area, specifically in Israel.
Scientifically interesting study was conducted by McDonald and McMillen (2002), who studied the value of land in Chicago, USA, before 1923 and after 1923. They claimed that the greatest impact on the land price was made by the distance to the city center, power lines, water supply network and to the railway station. The land price falls along with the increase of these distances. The average age of the buildings, the average house price, the rent and the number of multi-family houses built on the surrounding areas practically had no effect on the land value. In addition, it was discovered that the land plot distance from the Lake Michigan significantly reduces the price.
The next research to be considered is the research of Vruman D. (2008), who studied New York data for the 1971 – 1973. He observed that area has the greatest impact on land price, and with its increase the cost per square meter reduces. The price is also directly influenced by such factors as transportation, land fertility and the presence of neighbors. Regarding the land plot topographical features, there also exist the determinants of value. Thus, the presence of vegetation or tilt stations reduces its cost. It is noteworthy, that land price in the previously described studies depends on the purpose of the land that has already been identified. Thus, the highest value areas were sold for office premises or for individual housing construction, while the land for industrial activities had a much lower price. In order to achieve the results authors applied multiple regression analysis, linear model specification.
The analysis of the previous empirical studies in this research area allows me to draw a conclusion – it is apparent that almost all authors deployed regression analysis. It can not only determine whether the effect of a factor on the dependent variable, but also identify the nature of the impact, in other words, determine positive or negative. The authors revealed such problems as heteroscedasticity, high autocorrelation and multicollinearity, which led to the quality degradation of the model. Table 1 showing the determinants of land value by type of influence: positive, negative or no impact, is presented below. It is worth noting that  the same factors have had opposite effect on the land prices. This might be due to the usage of different methodologies, as well as countries’ specific characteristics.

Methodology and procedure
Indicators that have no influence on the land value in the authors’ opinion are not the determinants of its value. Indicators that have a positive impact, or which are inversely proportional to the land value can be considered determinants of its value. Thus they increase and decrease it accordingly. It is clear that opinions of the researchers in relation to certain parameters differ due to different samples. This makes impossible forming an accurate list of land value determinants. This work as mentioned above, is aimed at determining the factors influencing cost of land in a region - specifically, in Perm region.
This part of the project gives special emphasis to the analysis of data. Here it is necessary to describe the data and methods to be used in carrying out the study. The goal of the research will be attained using hedonic pricing model, econometric analysis and interview method. I plan using cross-sectional data from the classifieds site Domofond. This web-site allows land sellers to publish information about land plots and their characteristics. 
The sample will consist of approximately 150 observations for seven districts of the Perm region (including Krasnokamsk, Nytva, Okhansk, Osa, Kungur, Chusovoy, Dobryanka). Selected areas share borders with administrative capital - Perm city and are adjacent to each other. This data appears to be appropriate for the study due to the following: 
-it contains information on a number characteristics of land plots, necessary for identifying general land plot features of each area. It is also essential for calculating average land statistics;
-Domofond is one of the largest classifieds sites. Therefore, I will collect a sufficient sample to build an econometric model for my research;
-it covers all 7 main districts of Perm region.
Still the data base has some drawbacks - it does not contain any information about availability of swimming sites and forests, scenery of landscape, land capability, lay of the land and other features due to their inaccessibility. In order to take into account these essential factors I will use a qualitative sociological method, particularly semi-structured interview, aside from econometric analysis. Respondents will be asked to divide a list of factors into 3 groups in order to reveal their importance: "not important", "necessary", "would be an asset". The results of the interview will be addition to the econometric outcomes. The data collected will be analyzed with applying a statistical package for Windows – Eviews. 
The distance to various objects will be calculated employing Yandex maps service. It will be measured not as a direct shortest distance from point to point on the map, but as a distance that can be covered by car or on foot. This approach allows me to estimate the distance more realistically. To evaluate the road quality Google maps will be applied. As a result of the analysis I will have a table of coefficients. Interpreting these figures will make clear which factors are affecting the price of the land and to what extent.

Predicted outcomes       
 Hopefully, I will be able to create a rich picture of land market features and to reveal and describe discrepancies with academic literature. Conclusions and hypotheses drawn from qualitative data may be used as a basis for further research. Probably not all of the factors tested will appear to be significant factors. The results of the econometric analysis may not match the results of an interview. There are some hypothesis:
-Increase of a total land area has a negative impact on price per hundred square meters;
- Increase of a number of residents in inhabited locality has a positive impact on price per hundred square meters
-Availability of utility lines on a land plot has a stronger influence on price than distance to bus station.
Comprehensive analyses of data as well as sound arguments are essential to provide credible results. Obviously, it is hard to make generalizations from a sample of 150 to whole land plots. However, it is still possible to assume conditions under which they might be transferred to others. Therefore, the intention of this study is to explore in depth a limited number of land plots to develop hypothesis which may be tested in further research.

Limitations of research
Obviously, there may be substantial differences between formal structures and actual operations, between what people say and what they do. There is no confidence that price that seller claims on the web-site is the price of an actual deal. Sellers can significantly manipulate the price, reducing it in order to speed up the sale or rising it in case of growing demand. In other cases, land plots are sold at prices found on web-site. 
Limitations of the current study can also be found in two dimensions of the data used. First of all, data collection is limited by time range – I am going to employ cross-sectional data (research period - February, 2017) for my model. Another limitation is that some factors are not observable and others are not measurable – quite a lot of thing cannot satisfy the conditions of econometric model. That is why researches cannot take into account absolutely all determinants of land prices. Imperfect information can lead to equivocal results.
As for restrictions for land plots location - I have made a decision to reduce the research area to the territory of Perm region, specifically the land around administrative capital – Perm city. There also will be limitations for expert selection whom I am going to ask for an interview. As far as land buyers are more involved into land evaluation only this type of market players will get into the sample of people to interview. 
I am choosing not to observe all districts, even though such comparisons might be valuable, in order to allow more depth of understanding regarding the group on which I will focus. Additionally, I will use structured interviews in order to obtain information about the factors that are not included in the econometric model. Some aspects of land market may need additional investigation. In particular, concerning different land use categories may be interesting directions for future research.

