Introduction
The topic of this research is the strategy of commercial property (CP) management under declining demand conditions. At present, this issue is currently an active area of research as commercial property management is associated with the development of construction companies, intermediary companies, and with the owners’ profit. All this contributes to the development of the industry, and directly affects firms’ profitability and success. There is also a knowledge gap in this field as there are a lot of books and articles concerning CP but there is lack of research where it is examined under declining demand conditions. Moreover, there is lack of studies conducted in the Perm region. This makes the project valuable, as it will help to analyze the specifics of Perm CP industry. 
An increasing amount of publications in this sphere forms four main features of commercial property that are important to the understanding of the research problem, these are:
1) CP as the benefit (private and public);
2) CP as a factor of production;
3) CP as the capital (own and borrowed);
4) CP as a form of savings.
These features are currently an active area of research as they help to answer the question why it is important to broaden the knowledge in this sphere. Using them one can formulate the purpose of the formation, introduction, and implementation of mechanism for the effective commercial property management that is the realization of economic and social interests of property owners, government and society.
The analysis of commercial property management is especially important in the turbulent environment and under declining demand conditions, as this can be an indicator of general prosperity of organizations and their abilities to meet stakeholder interests.
The research question of this study is what strategies of commercial property management can be considered successful under declining demand conditions. Thus, the present investigation will not be aimed at analyzing all existing strategies within the CP management field but rather on defining common strategies for low-demand situations, assessing their effectiveness and choosing or modelling successful strategies for implementation. The interest in this topic is based on my knowledge about the industry and the fact that I want to build career in this field. Moreover, this research contributes to the investigation of the commercial property management peculiarities within the Perm market. It will be highly important to the organizations this industry because of a particular market focus.
The overall goal of the research is to form specific strategy of commercial property management for the territory that lacks the demand. The general goal can be reached by accomplishing the following objectives: 
1) to analyze the main theories in strategic commercial property management;
2) to consider the specifics of strategic and marketing analysis in this sphere;
3) to analyze the strategy of the organization that works under low-demand conditions;
4) to remodel existing strategy in order to improve organizational effectiveness and profitability.
The main assumption that is made in researching the question is that in order to analyze existing strategies in commercial property management one has to consider theories of M. Porter, A. Thompson and A. J. Strickland about competitive strategies. This will help to define effectiveness indicators, such as competitive revenue levels, customer base peculiarities, and to make grounded strategic analysis.
Theoretical Background
The following literature review is aimed to uncover the essence of commercial property and the specifics of its management. Modern conditions form a challenge for the owners of commercial properties and the organizations involved in the management of commercial real estate. This challenge is about ensuring positive changes in the level of profitability of the property while maintaining and developing its material properties in the long term. The solution to this problem is impossible without improving the existing methods of commercial real estate management, adapting them to changing market conditions and modernizing the management process (Ball et al, 1998; Fraser et al., 2002).
Real estate management is subject to the general laws of management activities and includes the performance of such management functions as planning, organizing, leadership, coordination and control. Therefore, it can be attributed to particular case management, with due to the nature of real estate as the object of control.
The term “commercial property” in Russia was formed only with the beginning of privatization (Simonov, Domrachev, 2009). Commercial real estate is any property, that is primarily nonresidential, which can generate income to its owner. It includes offices, warehouses, hotels, shops, shopping centers, industrial enterprises, sports clubs and more. Residential property can also be related to commercial, if it involves making profit.
Foreign literature gives the following definition of commercial property within the residential category. It includes the construction objects from small-sized apartments to huge construction projects of residential houses that cover several city blocks (Conti, Harris, 2007). 
For a successful commercial property management, mostly for large objects, such as business and shopping centers, apartment complexes, the management company is required, which is composed of all the necessary staff: managers, accountants, lawyers and other employees connected with commercial property management process. Of course, the property owner can carry out all the work on management himself. Sometimes it is better to use this type of commercial property management, as the owner may have more information or resources (Miles, McCue, 1984).
There are two questions that have to be asked during the process of CP management:
1) how to effectively manage commercial property? 
2) how to make it bring the maximum income? 
A large number of books and articles worldwide devoted to answering this question. If the owner of a commercial real estate decides that it is economically and generally more profitable to manage their property by him- or herself, in this case, he/she should pay special attention to the following aspects (Geltner, 2001).
1. Time. The preparation of the premises and their lease, drafting leases, collecting rental charges, payroll of employees, cash flow management, payment of utilities services, taxes, landscaping, marketing, disputes resolving, repair and technical maintenance and much more - all this requires a huge amount of time.
2. Laws: local and state. One of the most important and often overlooked aspects of property management is the legal nuances of relationships with potential and existing tenants. Moreover, the possibility of legal disputes is not uncommon. The owner must know the laws at the local and state level to enlist the help of a lawyer in order to escape the emergence of significant legal disputes.
3. Knowledge of the local real estate market. The real estate market is not stable, it has its own life-cycle. Having the knowledge about its development will help the owners to correctly manage their investments. As for rents, the property owner must know the rental rate.
The commercial property owner may choose a management company to provide management and control to his/her property. The responsibilities of the property manager traditionally include (Leyshon et al., 1990, Sayce et al, 2004):
1) rent collection, 
2) coordination of maintenance, 
3) advertising and rental of premises, 
4) making contracts with tenants, 
5) making contracts with suppliers of necessary goods and services, 
6) conducting marketing studies and market analysis, 
7) coordination and inspection of capital fixation, the solution of legal issues, preparation of monthly and annual financial reports, 
8) timely payment of all utility bills. 
The property owner, in this case, has to study the financial report provided by the real estate manager and to make an appropriate financing of these activities. Special attention should be paid to choosing the right company, as well as the method of payment. If the salary of the manager will depend on the result of his or her activity, the work will be effective and fruitful (Dobson, Goddard, 1992) 
All commercial properties are different, therefore, the owner should assess their object according to the following criteria (Fisher, Collins, 1999): 
1) age (does the building have good overhaul and maintenance); 
2) structure (what are the objects consisting this property, whether there are fountains, pools  or prost grounds); 
3) equipment and transport (does the object have any equipment that requires specific maintenance - machines, boilers, vehicles); 
4) land (whether there is land on the object and do they require landscaping); 
5) local legislation.
All in all, managing CPs in a complicated process that requires a number of skills. The owner must manage the CP accurately and pay special attention to the right maintenance of this type of real estate. 

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study. There is a great variety of approaches that may be used in the research. Their choice is based on the algorithm that depicts the main stages of internal and external organizational assessment:
1) external environment analysis:
a. industry structure;
b. competitive level;
c. market situation;
d. opportunities and threats;
2) internal environment analysis:
a. the main assets of the organization;
b. organizational structure;
c. marketing activities;
d. business canvas;
e. strengths and weaknesses.
The internal and external environment analysis ca be conducted through the use of the following methods. 
1) Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats can be analyzed using SWOT analysis. This will include the overall organizational internal analysis (the amount of employees, organizational structure, organizational mission and values, financial status). However, SWOT analysis is a too broad a concept and is not free from shortcomings. SWOT analysis can create a static picture of reality, not taking into account changing circumstances. Moreover, the strengths of the enterprise not necessarily constitute a competitive advantage. In order to avoid these disadvantages, this type of analysis has to be conducted along with various dynamic methods of research;
2) PEST analysis will be used to analyze the market situation. This type of analysis allows obtaining the information about political, economic, socio-cultural and technological issues. On order to make the results more reliable I will use a variety of informational sources, this will lower the research bias;
3) In order to analyze the industry structure I will search the information in various resources, such as the official city site, reports on the commercial property in Russia and in Perm, reports on the welfare of business and people in the region. All this will construct the basis to the strategy development and allow gaining information about the quantity of firms in the industry, the amount of real ad potential customers and the level of demand;
4) Porter’s Five Forces analysis will be useful to define the level of competition and extent to which customers and suppliers can influence the organization;
5) Osterwalder’s business model canvas is going to be used in the research as it clearly shows the organizational relationships with its rivals and customers, as well as the methods of value adding.

Predicted outcomes
The results anticipated will include both the narrative text representing major findings of the research and graphs, drawings and schemes, depicting these results. The findings of the study are expected to reflect the internal and external organizational performance peculiarities. Moreover, it might be proposed that the information obtained will be enough to construct the specific strategy of commercial property management designed for the territory with low demand. The findings of the research will be very important to the organization because they will be used in its strategy construction. If the formulated strategy is implemented correctly, it will probably have a positive influence on the organizational performance and result in increased profits, wider client base, higher reputation and obtained competitive advantage.

Limitations of Research
The final part of the proposal considers a number of limitations. The majority of limitations is a concern of the strategic analysis specifics. For example, SWOT and PEST analyses do not consider dynamic changes in the organizational environment. This problem is going to be eliminated through the use of organizational and market indicators in dynamics. This means that, for example, a conclusion on an organizational competitive position will be partially based on statistics within 5 years period.
Another type of limitations is connected with the organizational specifics, as well as the territorial aspect of the investigation. Due to the fact that I am going to analyze the company located in Perm the results can be operationalized to the organizations in this region. The industrial specifics defines the type of organizations, which may use the results in their operation. Moreover, demand peculiarities limit the types of situations where the CP strategy can be used to with the low demand markets. The aforementioned limitations cannot be managed within the research.


