Introduction 
The paper analyses the corporate governance and its prospects in Russia. Corporate governance always played a huge role in firms’ value as there a strong correlation between these two factors.  This topic should have become extremely popular in Russia because of the fact that, on the whole, there is a big share of companies that are most valuable in the country and exist under government control. Most of the government companies experience slackness in management. There is a bad trend that there can be high levels of corruption in state owned enterprises. There is can be no intention among managers to act more efficiently because state will pay for it with budget money. In another words, the statistics shows that among most of the huge Russian state controlled companies, many of them are running out of efficiency in governance and have a number of serious problems. In this study, we review a number of firms’ parameters, which make up a panel data set, and try to answer the research questions, like what kind of relationship between ownership concentration and firm value in Russia is.
The study of about 100 of the largest Russian companies by Black, Love and Rachinsky (2006) finds a substantial and statistically significant positive impact of the quality of corporate governance on a firm’s market valuation. That’s why we can make a suggestion, that both the stock market and the quality of corporate governance in Russian listed firms have remarkably increased over the last few years because of relationship between these two. 

Theoretical background 
All studies that explore firms value are rely on different methods of company’s valuation. This study in particular focus on such determinants as ownership structure, dividend policy and capital structure decisions. It is already empirically have been demonstrated, that these parameters leads to company’s prestige and in its turn high investment attractiveness and to higher firm’s value, eventually. These are our incentives when we want to try to study how these three governance instruments propel value of Russian firms. 
Ownership structure
Observing the ownership structure in this study, we should always keep in mind that there are distinctive highlights in Russian governance practice and western one. Substantially, Russia quickly caught up with the West in adjusting their company and laws. However, there are certain differences according to empirical literature. 
The most fundamental insight into the relationship between the performance and ownership structure written by Berle and Means argues that the separation of ownership reduces managers’ incentives to maximize corporate efficiency, supporting their argument on agency costs. It has been widely argued that concentrated ownership structures solve some agency problems because majority shareholders have an incentive to supervise their managers (Ang et al. 2000; Drees et al. 2012). While in Russian reality study that dates back to [5 ñòð Dolgopyatova], argues that growing concentration of ownership and emergence of controlling owner lead to a larger share of firms, which brings us to two similar situations in Western developed world and Russian environment in the context of power distribution inside the company. Furthermore, the concentration of ownership is a consequence of Russia’s weak legal environment that leaves another field for new surveys. We just point, that similar result was achieved by different reasons. Law enforcement due to widespread corruption in courts1, regulatory bodies and law enforcement agencies remains poor in Russia (Pistor et al (2000). 
Capital structure
There are several approaches to explore firm value. In particular we consider to use Tobin’s Q coefficient. The theoretical definition of Tobin’s Q coefficient is the ratio market value of the firm to replacement cost of assets. The findings reported by Adam and Goyal (2008) show that, on a relative scale, the market-to-book assets ratio has the highest information content with respect to investment opportunities.
Dividend policy
There are studies that dispute the fact that the dividend policy is relevant for company value and shareholders wealth. But, in contrast to them, He (2012) documents the fact that dividends received by minority shareholders, depend on whether a country’s legal system or a company’s corporate governance can effectively force agency problems. 

Research design
By this, we consider to obtain the data set that will consist of information about public companies from Moscow Exchange. Taken the period of several years we plan to construct a list of nearly 100 companies, which will lead as to work with panel data. We believe to obtain balanced panel data. This approach will allow us to use the data panel methodology. The parameters will be obtained from the audited financial statements and stock quotations at the end of each year. We will exclude observations with negative equity, which are firms technically in bankruptcy. Eventually, this study will involve the most important industrial sectors in the Russian economy. In addition, we will count the share of market capitalization that companies in our data set are making. 
The number of variables considered to be in the analysis will be directly related to the theoretical framework. The dependent proxy variable represents counted firm value. 

Limitations of research
We might face several problems making this research. Firstly, if we won’t be able to obtain balanced panel data we will have to deal with unbalanced panel. This can bring a problem of small data base as there are not many russian public companies in Moscow Exchange. In its turn we can encounter inconsistent outcomes and all research purposes won’t be achieved as we won’t be able to relay on our calculations. 
According to the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index, Russia is ranked 131th out of 176 countries in 2016.