Introduction
The topic of communications planning has been put forward along with the development of marketing in the academic discourse. Marketing communications in particular can promote customer acquisition, help transfer the company’s message to its potential clients and accept their feedback for further product development. Considering this, marketing communications are defined as a set of interrelated messages delivered to the consumers through one or several channels.
Although the world practice of communication development appeared a long time ago, academic research in the field started in the 1970s with works of P. Kotler, F.E. Webster, M.L. Rothschild and others. Kotler’s successor D.E. Schultz revised the process of communication planning and proposed numerous approaches to evaluate its effectiveness (Schultz, 1995; Schultz & Peltier, 2013). Current studies also examine impact of the Internet, technological innovations and social media.
Nonetheless, the majority of experts try to meet the needs of the marketers instead of examining wants of the target audience or intended recipients of the marketer’s message. Besides, the scholars seem to miss the aspect of consumers’ mental sets and requirements. Access to online environment has made the problem more explicit (Broilo et al., 2016). It became difficult for the market players to draw attention and be allocated among competitors. Application of appropriate communication plan has been found to be a vital point of every organization. This up to date issue has formed the basis of the proposal.
Hence, the ultimate goal of this applied cross-disciplinary research is to develop a marketing communication plan focused on consumers' preferences and motives, i.e. their behavior. In order to reach this objective, several tasks should be denoted and carried out. Firstly, it is necessary to provide a theoretical background on the subject, which is covered in the first part of this paper. Secondly, “Methodology and procedure” section stipulates chosen methods and tools, that will help collect and analyze data about consumers of a specific product. Thirdly, the received findings should be ordered according to the purpose of the study. Anticipated outcomes are described in the next part of the paper. Finally, a marketing communication plan will be developed after the analysis regarding the principles highlighted in the theoretical background.
In researching the problem, three fundamental methods will be used: secondary data analysis, focused interview and questionnaire. For the second one a model of eight human motives, namely Censydiam, will be used (“The compass of human motivations”). The model comprises eight features (enjoyment, recognition, control etc.), which lead the consumer to purchase. The respondents will be asked to evaluate personal importance of these features. The interdisciplinary approach mentioned above consists in use of a psychological tool of archetypes. According to Mark and Pearson (2001), this tool should be implemented in consumer segmentation, advertising and promotion processes.
Professional significance of the offered study will concern marketers, PR managers, strategy officers, sales development directors and researchers in communications and marketing disciplines. Moreover, the research will contribute to theoretical discussion and works on implication of the Censydiam model.

Theoretical Background
The present review is based on a systematic study of extensive literature on marketing communications. Since the research in this area includes many dimensions, light is going to de shed only on the concept of integrated marketing communications (IMC). It is accepted by the vast majority of contemporary marketers and researchers for its highly effective tools of target audience attraction and maintenance (Bruhn et al., 2012).
The notion of IMC has not remained completely unchanged for the last several decades. Following Hutton’s works, IMC could be defined as a combination of marketing tools to deliver an intentional two-way communication between the company or its brand and the stakeholders or target audience (Hutton, 1996). Kitchen and Proctor (2015) determine IMC as a solution to consumer confusion and overchoice, which occur due to technological innovations in online environment and information overload.
In practice, the approach of IMC deepens and pushes forward the interrelation of both modern and traditional marketing tools. These marketing tools can be divided into three groups depending on the addressee of the message:
* focused on the target audience – advertising, sales promotion and direct marketing, which are considered to be the core elements of IMC concept according to Anantachart (2005);
* focused on the public and stakeholders – public relations (PR), exhibitions, word-of-mouth (WOM) and electronic WOM (eWOM), developed in multimedia environment (Schultz & Peltier, 2013);
* focused on other clients – merchandising, packaging and other tools, which can attract consumers in a sale point.
Over the past half century, numerous attempts have been made towards studying marketing communications and their value for the business sector. It is difficult to overestimate the importance of Don E. Schultz’s contribution, since his works provide sufficient explanation of the complex nature of IMC development and planning. Schultz’s key ideas rest on two fundamental assumptions: (1) advertising is the core tool of the IMC concept; (2) the company should follow the outside-in approach, i.e. the IMC plan should be consumer- oriented (Schultz, 1995; Schultz, 2006). Schultz’s successors have also contributed to detailed discussion of communication process (Finne & Strandvik, 2012) and implications of digital and multimedia technologies for IMC (Centeno & Hart, 2012).
A considerable amount of work has been done to remove contradictions between applied communication channels, networks and multichannel environment. Among the latest ones is a work by Broilo et al. (2016) that investigates the variety of information resources within the framework of consumer choice. However, the results obtained appeared to be fairly obvious: the organizations should focus on several popular resources than invest in an expensive media plan.
For the last quarter of a century, innovative ideas in the IMC concept have pushed the revision of the impact of various communication environments on consumer behavior and motivation. Recent studies in the problem area include an investigation by Bruhn et al. (2012), who introduce a groundbreaking discovery, revealing a shift towards social media communications within informal multichannel environment. The researchers managed to reveal explicit influence of IMC on brand awareness and brand image from the consumers’ point of view. The punch line of their study shows that social media are assumed to be more trustworthy and reliable as a source of information about service or a product. Despite the fact that the authors failed to offer any practical solution and tend to generalize the results of their study, Kitchen and Proctor (2015) also support this opinion.
However, it seems that some specialists on communications do not strive for consensus. For example, in a study of marketing offer perceptions Danaher and Rossiter (2011) diminish the value of electronic communications and insist on traditional marketing channels, such as mailing, TV and other media. What is more, they emphasize that traditional communication tools seem to have influenced most purchasing intentions of the consumers. This idea contradicts the results received one year later by Bruhn et al. (2012).
In the current period more attention is paid to IMC planning. Following Anantachart (2005) and Hutton (1996) this process is based on three assumptions:
* regular assessment of every applied marketing tool is extremely important;
* the integration has to begin from the top-management;
* the IMC plan has to be oriented on long-run relationships with the stakeholders and customers.
Nonetheless, the question of developing the IMC plan regarding consumers’ inner motivation and needs seems to be poorly studied. Instead, the majority of studies concern a revision of consumers’ preferences in their decision-making process. According to Finne and Strandvik (2012), prime corporate purpose should be to facilitate the purchasing process instead of satisfying the company's needs by selling goods by all possible means. Moreover, they emphasize a problem of gathering relevant and valid data about the consumers and their wants. D.E. Schultz (2006) observes a problem of subjective marketer’s opinion on consumer behavior while planning the marketing program. The only solution proposed by him was to examine the customers thoroughly and to pay more attention to segmentation.
The issue could be addressed in the intersection of marketing and psychology. A book by Mark and Pearson ‘The Hero and the Outlaw: Building Extraordinary Brands through the Power of Archetypes’ (2001) provides an eye-opening technique of consumer motives identification. The Jungian archetypal phenomena are the cornerstone of their method, which proposes tools for consumer behavior analysis and further product development on its basis.
However, the potential application of such approach in marketing has not yet been carefully investigated. The scholars will fail to obtain new insights into the consumers’ decision-making process unless they challenge the arising trend of positioning and promotion by means of analyzing consumer behavior and motivation. A prospect of applying the archetypal phenomena approach could also eliminate the drawback of IMC mentioned above, i.e. a discussion of balance between various communication channels, networks and tools.

Methods and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the methods and procedures which are going to be used in conducting the research. It should be noted that some particular aspects of applied methods will be specified as the study is progressing.
It will serve the purposes of the study if several methods would be used in data collecting in the following sequence:
1. Secondary data analysis for the sake of simplifying the further research and pinpointing the key questions for the interview. 
2. Focused interview with 10-15 participants that will shed light on primary aspects of consumption and provide the basis for the questionnaire.  At this stage a model of Censydiam by Synovate Censydiam is going to be deployed. This model has been developed approximately 30 years ago in order to help companies understand consumer’s motivation (“The compass of human motivations”). It consists of eight essential attributes that motivate people: enjoyment, vitality, power, recognition, control, security, belonging and conviviality (see Appendix 1). This concept should be adopted specifically for the psychological approach of archetypes by Mark and Pearson (2001).
3. Questionnaire, which will include up to 20 closed questions, adopted from the previous step, with a limited number of answers or a Likert scale (see Appendix 2). Collected data will illustrate validation of intermediate results and will be analyzed by the means of IBM SPSS software. The sample has to exceed 101 respondents and be representative.
This strategy aims to organize the existing information about consumers, gather extra data about their consumer experience, needs, expectations, etc., and describe the target audience in terms of behavior and motivation. 

Predicted outcomes
This section of the proposal will define the results anticipated with the methods stated above. The received results will be used in developing the marketing communications plan and recommendations about its efficiency evaluation. Application of the Censydiam model will provide deeper understanding of consumer’s nature and incentives. Despite the fact that the employed model cannot be immediately tested, the motives and the archetypes from Mark & Pearson’s approach (2001) will be adopted in order to match and coincide with this model. In order to outline the target audience and develop an adequate IMC plan, the majority of collected data will be appropriately organized, including illustrations in figures and tables. The approach from the archetypal point of view is likely to bring us to nonconventional solutions of such issues as:
* who is the target audience of the product/service;
* how to formulate the marketing offer;
* how to deliver the message to the target audience;
* what motives of the consumers to trigger;
* what needs and requirements of the consumers will be met, etc.
The pertinent results will be reported objectively with an appropriate organizational pattern. The obtained facts are likely to be valid and reliable due to careful data collection and analysis.

Limitations of research
The final part of the research will emphasize its restrictions and potential disadvantages. Some of them will be tackled during the research, while the rest might need extra investigation and data collection.
The issues that need to be considered are as follows. Firstly, due to a time shortage the anticipated results might not be achieved in full. Therefore, time and monetary expenditures on development of the marketing communications plan can increase. Secondly, the study will not provide permanent results. Obtained answers and explanations cannot be generalized and will be relevant only for the given product during a certain period of the product’s lifecycle. Finally, there is a need to smooth the disadvantages of focus interview, namely complicated recruitment and moderation of the respondents. Miscommunication and its unpleasant consequences are undesirable.
Nevertheless, these difficulties can be avoided. The first problem can be solved if every step of data collection and analysis is done in time. Moreover, there is no need to interview a large number of respondents when a representative sample is enough. Besides, thorough training on holding interviews can eliminate the weaknesses of the interviewer and delimit the research.
What is more, observed outcomes and employed methodology can be used for further studies of human behavior. For instance, in order to account the impact of such aspects as education level, income, price sensitivity, etc., research on a consumer portrait might be required. Offered methodology could be adopted for the purposes of such research.