INTRODUCTION
Strategic management scholars have long been interested in how to explain performance differences between companies: that is the core issue necessary for formulating long-term business strategy. The acknowledgement of outstanding performance sources reveals what company to invest in or what strategic actions are to be undertaken for company to beat its rivals. Recently this topic received additional interest in developing countries due to growing competition and investment appeal in emerging markets. 
The literature describing companies’ sources of superior performance falls into two main directions: Resource-Based View (RBV) and Industrial Organization (IO). The former considers company as a bundle of its resources and capabilities (Wernerfelt, 1984) while the latter claim performance variation to be attributed to industry-specific features (Porter, 1981). Although there is plenty of empirical evidence in support of firm-level attributes dominance (Rumelt, 1991; Short et al., 2007), the controversy is still growing with the emergence of new analytical methods, new levels of analysis, new data and the recognition of the interdependent nature of effects being explored. Therefore, my goal is to explore how industry-level and firm-level features interact in order to determine performance success focusing primarily on intangibles and differentiating results by location. To reach the goal the following tasks are to be carried out:
1. to analyze the current degree of research field exploration;
2. to propose models of performance dependence on industry-level and firm-level factors in Russia and Europe;
3. to test empirically the models proposed;
4. to compare results for different countries and to conclude. 
To be more detailed, the current paper suggests several opportunities to extend existing knowledge in the research area. Firstly, the direct comparison of performance variation reasons in developed and developing countries is conducted to provide reasoning for strategic differences between companies located variously. It was stated by McGahan and Porter (2002) and followed by many authors (Cherchye & Verriest, 2016; Makino et al., 2004) that the relative significance of firm-level and industry-level attributes varies across countries and requires additional investigation if the data are available. The motivation behind Russia exploration is the opportunity to gain a new insight comparing with other countries for the reason of its nearly-established market and unique social and cultural characteristics. 
Secondly, the possession of intangibles is examined to be the key performance driver at a firm level, and its effect is investigated to be reinforced or weakened by particular industry attributes. While Andonova et al. (2016) have demonstrated the significance of intangibles and industry factors interaction, I attempt to further discuss the topic and reveal specific industry features such as concentration, munificence and others that matters. Moreover, intangible assets efficiency is seemed to be linked to the company’s location due to varying quality of institutional enforcement mechanisms and copyright protection implemented in different countries. It follows that the attempt to identify the structure of intangibles effects in emerging countries with regard to developed ones is crucial since there is no resilient theoretical reasoning (Andonova & Ru?z-Pava, 2016). 
To meet the question underpinning the study I am going to exploit relatively new statistical method of data analysis, HLM, which outplays its rival methods being able to accept and to estimate the interdependence of different level terms, to yield rather stable results, to take into account hierarchical structure of data and to test effects of particular factors at any level (Bryk et al., 1992).
The research is organized in the following way: firstly, literature review is provided to cover tendencies in the research field. Secondly, methodological aspects are developed to outline research design. After that, results explanation and discussion of its reasonableness are posed. 

THEORETICAL BACKGROUND
According to RBV the idiosyncratic companies’ attributes are thought to be the main source of sustained value creation (Penrose, 2009). While neo-classical microeconomists imply perfectly elastic supply of resources and capabilities (Barney, 1991), RBV scholars blame limited access to resources for companies’ performance inequality (Wernerfelt, 1984). Consequently, RBV claims that in order for firm to improve the performance it is crucial to exploit appropriate strategy as indicated by firm resource profile and its internal characteristics. 
Alternative stream of strategic management in discovering performance differentiation reasons – industrial organization – focuses primarily on external performance drivers. IO scholars put an emphasis on industry attractiveness factors in determining the sources of outstanding performance and claim that business strategy should entirely reflects these factors (Bain, 1959). 
It is worth noting, that the emergence of two in some way competing theories in the strategic management led to a continuing discussion of their comparing reasonableness (Spanos & Lioukas, 2001). It seems, however, that attempts to prove the absolute prevalence of one or another theory were failed; therefore the acknowledgement of theories interaction is crucial.  
Followers of neither RBV nor IO have put against theories propositions. Wernerfelt claims industry-level and firm-level factors are not mutually exclusive being «two sides of the same coin» (1984: 171). The point of view proposed is completely justified because a company operates in particular environment with particular internal resources, and both factors affect its activities. It is also noticeable that RBV was developed with the assumption of existing competition environment (Barney, 1991), while Porter’s framework recommends companies to avoid intensive rivalry (Porter, 1981). It means that approaches view firm activities from different sides being complements, not substitutes.
Schmalensee (1985) was the first who made an effort to test empirically the relative contribution of internal and external companies’ attributes to performance supposing isolated impacts of those factors. He found industry-level features to be dominant determinants of performance as opposed to firm-level ones that failed to be significant. However, I have had no more examples of the same findings. The nearly absolute trend from the earliest papers to current ones is the confirmation of the firm-level effects predominance hypothesis (Kamasak, 2011; McGahan & Porter, 1997; Rumelt, 1991; Zacharias et al., 2015). 
Discourse above implies that many scholars reveal the dominance of RBV over IO, however, as I have already pointed out, the complementary nature of those perspectives exists. Following the evolution of research questions, one can also find the endorsement of that statement. It is Bo Eriksen (2003) who explored synergy effects of a firm and an industry for the first time and found them to be significant. 
Apart from including interaction effects, different aspects of the initial research question were elaborated. Firstly, an exploration of country-level effects on performance became fairly common (Cherchye & Verriest, 2016; Eriksen & Knudsen, 2003; Makino et al., 2004; McGahan & Victer, 2010) after McGahan and Porter (2002) had framed the urgency of similar studies outside the USA. International studies shed new light on research area demonstrating country heterogeneity. 
Secondly, authors address methodological issues to improve statistical toolkit exploited. Pioneers of performance determinants studies relied primarily on two methods: variance component analysis (VCA) and analysis of variance (ANOVA), but these methods have substantial limitations. A significant inconsistency of VCA results (Misangui et al., 2006) is considered as a drawback hampering to produce robust estimates. Moreover, both techniques require complete independence of testing effects (McGahan & Porter, 2002). The assumption mentioned is not realistic with respect to firm-level and industry-level terms as earlier in the current paper I proposed the importance of synergy effects. 
For these reasons hierarchical linear modeling (HLM), which firstly arose in the research field with the paper of Misangyi et al. (2006), might be the most appropriate method. HLM outperforms other methods being able to solve problems listed (Bryk et al., 1992), that is why it gets a wide spread across modern studies (Andonova & Ru?z-Pava, 2016; Karniouchina et al. 2013; Short et al., 2007).
It is noteworthy, however, that some scholars aim to extend classical perception of industry effects significance exploring particular industrial characteristics impacts. There are some attributes nearly permanently recurring, which are based upon Porter’s five forces tenet. However, results vary considerably with applying different statistical methods or including different other variables or conditions.  
Similarly to external attributes internal ones are investigated, and the noticeable tendency is an extra attention to possession of intangible assets contribution to performance (Andonova & Ruiz-Pava, 2016). Intangibles impact on performance regardless of industry heterogeneity is a well-established and extensively studied topic: there are plenty of papers on this issue (Marrocu et al., 2012; O’Mahony & Vecchi, 2009). Following this line scholars include intangibles into RBV and IO discussion taking into account overall industry effects, however there are significant limitations in currently existing papers. 
The literature review reveals the constantly growing importance of the main issue studied in the actual paper and provides some widespread tendencies. It also shows that intangibles effect on performance with considering industry-level effects and country heterogeneity is not fully studied. 

METHODOLOGY AND PROCEDURE
This study uses databases obtained from the International Laboratory of Intangible-driven Economy. These bases span from 2004 to 2014 and contain 12056 company-year observations for Russia and 18634 company-year observations for Europe in unbalanced panel. I exploit NACE codes to classify companies by industries as it was done in previous papers (Melville et al., 2007), combining codes into 20 homogenous industry groups. 
I use two different measures of performance both to fully reflect real performance success and to check results robustness: Return on Assets (ROA) and Economic Value Added (EVA). Although there is long standing polemics of which performance measure best explain companies’ results, it is still not clear (Hawawini et al., 2003). ROA is widely used (Eriksena et al., 2003, Karniouchina et al., 2013) for its estimation simplicity and widely criticized for its dependence on accounting policies (Hawawini et al., 2003). On the contrary, EVA’s advantage is its ability to describe companies’ economic (not accounting) performance, and disadvantage is its valuation difficulties, that yield significant estimation errors. Not being able to cope with problems proposed simultaneously the author uses both measures and compare results. 
As for measuring intangible assets, two approaches are rather common in the research field (Andonova & Ruiz-Pava, 2016). One uses balance sheets to identify the years in which positively-valued intangible assets are reported, while others propose different aggregate estimates derived from expenditures on R&D and innovations or observable intangibles quality (for example: web-sites availability). I follow the second stream and use complex aggregate measure since it has more capabilities to reflect intangibles. Moreover, balance sheets-based measures face the problem of underreporting and limited accounting quality in Russia. 
As for statistical toolkit, I exploit HLM method, which was previously discussed. The method recognizes hierarchical structure of data to the extent that industry-level effects are spread across many companies within the industry and firm-level effects are focused on the only company. I also include company-industry interaction term in order to capture the influence of industry factors on the firm-level effect size and to take into account synergistic nature of RBV and IO. 
To compare the structure of effects in developed and developing countries the author conducts statistical analysis for both Russian and European databases further contrasting results. It is worth mentioning that this approach helps to fully investigate the inter-country difference between performance differentiation reasons as opposed to including country-level of analysis in regression (McGahan, 2010). 

PREDICTED OUTCOMES
The results are expected to reveal the following insights. Firstly, I assume industry-level effects to be more significant in European countries than in Russia. It is stated because these effects are regarded to markets that consist of many homogenous companies as it is in Europe. Secondly, I guess intangibles as firm-level features to explain much more performance variation than industry-level ones as it was shown in previous papers (Andonova & Ruiz-Pava, 2016). Apart from that, it is anticipated that industry-level factors strengthen firm-level effects in both Russia and Europe (Tong et al., 2008). 
I am going to obtain results explaining whether or not particular industry characteristics reinforce the efficiency of intangibles possession in developed and developing countries. It will be a crucial contribution to both performance variation reasoning and intangibles effects exploring fields. The practical implementation of results is implied by recommendations for strategic planning of top-managers, shareholders and potential investors that might be based on the current paper. 

LIMITATIONS OF RESEARCH
Comparative analysis of Russia and European countries imposes several restrictions on the results expected. Firstly, the exploration of the only developing country with the only block of developed ones is not fully representative with regard to country effects. Consequently, the investigation of more wide range of countries is a space for further research. Secondly, difference in accounting policies is the alternative reason for ROA variation in locations, leading to overestimates of discrepancy between companies. EVA exploitation is considered to be a reasoned solution, however it also implies limitations described earlier. Apart from that, similar industries in different countries may be specialized differently resulting in biased estimates. 