Introduction
Over the past sixty years, sports economy was based only on primitive theoretical models. The relationship between the uncertainty of outcomes and the attendance in matches is a question that has contributed to considerable segregations in the literature principally due to the subsistence of many characteristics. They can affect the results generated through the inspection of this question in practice. Explaining and forecasting attendance in matches can help in establishing the prices of tickets, and to design size of new stadiums correctly. 
The uncertainty of outcome hypothesis (UOH) (Rottenberg, 1956; Neale, 1964) can forecast high attendance observed in more balanced sports matches. Up to now, the relation between the attendance in matches and uncertainty of outcome has been estimated by regressing the logarithm of match attendance on factors representing different characteristics of both teams. Also, there are other determinants influencing attendance, such as precipitation, price of the ticket, air temperature, distance between cities and others. As well there is a determinant showing the balance of the competition. 
Some researches explored different baseball and soccer games, used various methods of determining team characteristics, for example, team position in tournament table or sum of the goals scores by each team. Some investigators used different ways of measuring uncertainty, for instance, total weight of betting spread, difference in team positions or scored goals per game. On the one hand, several studies discovered that the higher the uncertainty of the competition the higher is attendance. On the other hand, some researchers found that probability of home team victory can explain the high attendance, considering that there is a decrease in attendance when probability of home team victory is greater than 0,65 – 0,75. However, some researchers found no relationships between matches attendance and the uncertainty of competitions outcomes. 
Similarly, ambiguous results can also be found in modern works. In 2008 two Britain researchers - Simmons and Buraimo modeled English soccer league attendance. They established that when the probability of home team victory is 0,35 (based on betting odds), the match attendance is minimal. Similar results were observed in LFP (Spanish soccer league). Nevertheless, in 2009, Benz has revealed that when the probability of home team victory is 0,53 (based on season tickets), the competition attendance in German soccer league is maximum. Inconsistent results for German soccer league were revealed by Anders and Pawlowski in 2012. In one specification they established that when the home team is favorite, the match attendance is decrease. In another specification researchers obtained that higher uncertainty of the match reduced competition attendance. 
The aim of this research is to estimate the relationship between matches attendance and the uncertainty of outcomes in RFPL (Russian Football Premier League), using special data, that includes 1071 observations about Russian football competitions from 2010 to 2014. 
This aim can be accomplished by examining two key questions. First one is to investigate how the probability of home team victory (using betting odds) affects the attendance of football events in Russia, and assess the value of this probability. Second one is to determine various factors that influence on football matches attendance, and calculate its quantitative effect. In order to have correct answers on these questions, it is very important to perform the following tasks:
To analyze the relevant literature related to the research question;
To determine significant external and internal factors;
To establish the form of the econometric model (linear or non-linear);
To indicate the predicted outcomes;
To identify and verify econometric model;
To interpret the results and compare them with predicted results;
To examine the limitations of the study. 

Theoretical background
In 1988, two researchers Thomas and Peel, first used data of betting market odds in EFL (English Football League) for season from 1981 to 1982 to measure the uncertainty of outcome. In this study betting market odds were used to create rates of home team victory. This method assumes that the uncertainty of outcome is minimal when probability of home team victory is maximum. To measure the uncertainty of outcome, researchers used a linear form of the model. They identified a decrease in attendance when the probability of home team victory falls. This observation did not show that fans prefer matches with minimal uncertainty of outcome, as the Uncertainty of  Outcome Hypothesis assumes. 
Four years later, in 1992, same researchers examined the relationship between matches attendance and the uncertainty of outcomes in English football league for season from 1986 to 1987. In this study they again used betting market odds, but the difference was in form of the model. Thomas and Peel used a non-linear shape of the model with percentages of home team victory probabilities, including this determinant linear and squared. They found that the higher attendance seen in matches, were home team strongly dominates or vice versa, when the home team is the underdog. Researchers believe that less amount of tickets are sold for matches with the highest uncertainty of outcome. 
In 1992, three famous researchers Haupert, Sherony and Knowles examined the influence of uncertainty of outcome on competition attendance in Major Baseball League for 1988 season. They used betting market odds to create a non-linear determinant, comprising the probability of home team victory. The results partially supports the uncertainty of outcome hypothesis, proposed by Simmon Rottenberg in 1956. Haupert, Sherony and Knowles revealed that when the probability of home team victory is 0,6 , the game attendance in Major Baseball league is maximum. 
In 1999, two another investigators Zlatroper and Welki analyzed the impact of uncertainty on matches audience in NFL (National Football League) for 1986 and 1987 seasons. Taking into account the specifics of the American football, in contrast to previous studies, researchers used point market spreads , instead of betting market odds. Therefore, to measure the uncertainty of outcome, their study uses point market spreads. Zlatroper and Welki used a non-linear shape of the model with point market spreads , including this variable linear and squared in their regression model. The expected relationship between match attendance and uncertainty of outcome was linear and positive. When the impact of other determinants are equal and the point market spread increases, there is an expansion in attendance. This assumption is contrary to the uncertainty of outcome hypothesis, as a result of insignificant non-linear quadratic factor. 
In 2002, Simmons and Forrest, based on Thomas and Peel researching, explored the impact of uncertainty on matches attendance in English Football League for season from 1997 to 1998. Using betting market odds, researchers create a dummy-determinant that is equal zero, when the probability of home team victory different from 0,5, and equal one, when the uncertainty of outcome is the highest. These results, as well as findings of previous studies, contradict the main hypothesis (Simmon Rottenberg, 1956), considering that game attendance is minimal, when the uncertainty of outcome is maximum.  
In 2004, another researchers Weatherston and Owen investigated over hundred rugby matches, to identify the relationship between uncertainty of outcome and game attendance in Super world rugby league, which consist of top twelve teams. In this study betting market odds were used to create a non-linear variable, which indicates the probability of home team victory. Empirical results shows that there is no significant relationship between uncertainty of outcome and game attendance. 
In 2009, Tlhokwane, Leonard and Lemke explored the relationship between match attendance and uncertainty of outcome in Major Baseball League, using betting market odds to create a determinant, which is the probability of  home team victory. Researchers used a non-linear shape of the model. Tlhokwane, Leonard and Lemke identified that the lowest attendance will be observed in those games where the probability of home team victory is 0,52. These results do not correspond with Rotenberg's uncertainty of outcome hypothesis.    
In 2010, Coates and Humphreys, like previous researchers, investigated the impact of uncertainty on matches attendance in NFL (National Football League) for games over the period from 1985 to 2008. These researchers used the same basic method as Zlatoper and Welki done – to measure the uncertainty of outcome they used point market spreads. The researchers findings are contrary to the basic uncertainty of outcome hypothesis, because results shows that there is a positive relationship between match attendance and uncertainty of outcome.

Methodology and procedure
	As discussed previously, it is assumed that the relationship between uncertainty of outcome and match attendance is non-linear. Therefore, in our research we should take into account such factors that are included in the non-linear model. In this study, these dependent variables will be the probability of home team victory and its square.
Probability of home team victory:
, (1)
Where, 
B(H_i ) – betting market odd on home team victory.
Assuming that there are a lot of factors that can affect on game attendance, we will include in our model such linear determinants as:
The binary variable of precipitation:
(2)
Difference in the positions in tournament table:
, (3)
Where, 
POS_it (H) – The position of home team in tournament table;
POS_it (V) – The position of visiting team in tournament table.
Difference in points in tournament table:
, (4)
Where, 
POINTS_it (H) – Points of home team in tournament table;
POINTS_it (V) – Points of visiting team in tournament table,
The average number of scored goals by visiting team:
, (5)
Where, 
???GOALS_j (V)? – number of scored goals by visiting team;
n – number of completed matches.
The average number of scored goals by home team:
, (6)
Where, 
???GOALS_j (H)? – number of scored goals by home team;
n – number of completed matches.

Predicted outcomes
It is assumed that various factors can affect the level of attendance with different degree. I expect to get contrary results to the basic Rotenberg's uncertainty of outcome hypothesis (UOH), which shows that the highest attendance can be observed in matches with equal probabilities of home and visiting team victory. I expect to find the "U-shaped" relationship between the attendance and uncertainty of outcomes. It is mean that the lowest attendance can be found in matches with the highest uncertainty of outcomes.
What is more important is to estimate the sign of effects. I suppose that there is a positive and linear relationship between: 
Attendance and differences in team positions in tournament table;
Attendance and differences in points in tournament table;
Attendance and average number of scored goals by home team;
In addition I expect that there is a negative and linear relationship between:
Attendance and average number of scored goals by visiting team;
Attendance and precipitation.

Limitation of the research
The main limitation of this work is the absence of betting market odds on draw results. This is can be explained by difficulties in creating the probabilities of  drawing matches. As a consequence, in this research betting market odds on such outcome were not considered.  
In addition, there are other variables that can affect attendance, but they are not included. For example, ticket price is influence on total game attendance, especially in Russia, which can be explained by salaries and limited free time. Also, the capacity of stadium may has impact on audience willingness to come on sport competition. Finally, fans prefer to see title teams on the match, that is why it necessary to include the number of titles in the regression model.