Introduction
English Premier League is a League composed of 20 most powerful clubs in England. The official name is EPL. All the clubs of this League pursue completely different objectives. For some, it's a victory in national championship or preservation of residence in the Major League, for others the main objective is to maximize profits. Today, English Premier League is considered the most successful league on terms of both sports and finances. 
The main objective of the Premier League is to organize the most successful tournament from a financial point of view, as well as the most competitive in terms of sports. Currently EPL succeeds in achieving its objectives. Premier Leagues receives the largest revenues among other leagues. In general terms, these huge revenues can be attributed to the most expensive rights to broadcast matches, good attendance and sponsorship contracts. 
Currently their official sponsor is Barclays Bank, that's why the League's official name is Barclays Premier League. EPL is also sponsored by such world brands as Nike, Mitre, EA Sports, etc. All revenues received by the League and its clubs are constantly spend on football development in the English Championship. In particular: the construction of spacious and comfortable stadiums, purchase of world-class players, provision of security at stadiums. All these factors, in their turn, raise the level of the Premier League. 
English Premier League has the highest average salary of football players among other Leagues (2.8 million EUR in 2014). In 2014 due to the development of EPL level, television technology, as well as the cost control policy, Premier League earned a record 2.2. billion EUR on on the sale of television rights. Over 600 million fans of English football from 200 countries of the world watch EPL matches annually. 
All the Premier League clubs have immense budgets, estimated in tens and hundreds of millions of pounds. And yet, despite enormous expenses related to the purchase of players, their salary, provision of security and comfort on stadiums, etc., clubs always have an opportunity to raise the same high incomes. 
Performance in English Premier League helps teams to create a sufficiently strong financial base, that can serve as a pillar for the club in the event of relegation to the Championship. Also, the so-called financial parachute is paid to the club within four years after the relegation from the Premier League and can reach 60 million pounds. 
The purpose of this work is to identify and analyze the factors of financial success of football clubs in English Premier League. 
Objectives of this work:
* examine the basic characteristics and features of English Premier League
* study and analyze various factors that influence the financial success of football clubs in English Premier League.

Theoretical background
Recently, financial interests of English clubs began to outperform the sports ones in the football field. For example, in the FA Cup some clubs tend to lose in the early rounds of the tournaments in order to avoid unnecessary costs. The primary goal pursued by many owners in front of their clubs is not to win trophies, but to receive  the greatest profit. 
English Premier League itself plays an important role in final revenues of the clubs. First of all, the cost of EPL rights to broadcast is higher than the rest of football national championships. Also, sponsors willingly invest their money in English Premier League clubs. All this allows the clubs to gain a higher profit than the one they could gain in another championship. In recent years there are very few clubs that have a positive balance at the end of the season, due to the annually rising costs on transfers and players salary. Despite this fact, English Premier League is a perfect landmark for other leagues in financial terms, because it's the most profitable league in the world. In my work I will try to rEPLect main characteristics of English Premier League, mark its features and superiorities. It's also necessary to analyze the factors on which sports and financial results of the club depend. 
In order to investigate the dependence of some factors over the financial success of football clubs, it's firstly necessary to examine works already written on this topic. The economy of sport and football in particular, became a popular subject for research. At the moment, there are many scientific papers on the study and research of the economy of different leagues, including English Premiere League. 
Over the past two decades, the cost of keeping football clubs has increased tenfold. It's explained by the factors of increased players salaries, as well as the annual growth in the transfer market expenses. Many football clubs owners sold their clubs to foreign investors since 1992, because they couldn't afford such huge expenses. With an increasing level of the league and its popularity, the pieces in English championship only grew and, consequently, the expenses, that often exceed revenues, grew as well (Nauright, J., & Ramfjord, J. (2010)). In the article “Who owns England's game? American professional sporting influences and foreign ownership in the Premier League” it's claimed that this league clubs became very attractive for foreign investors, American in particular. In most cases, club owners from North America are mostly interested in gaining profits. Premiere League, according to article authors is the best place to get huge revenues. Clubs are already brands, the cost of  television rights is already the highest, the clubs also get high revenues from attendance. 
Net profit is not always the main motivation for football clubs and their owners. Sometimes there are other priorities that often push profit to the background (Carmichael F., McHale I., Thomas D (2011)).
Authors A. Barajas, C. Fernandez-Jardon and  L. Crolley (2005) examine the impact of sports results on the economic success in Spanish La League. According to the results of this work it was revealed that there's a noticeable impact (0.55) of sports performances on incomes obtained by the clubs. A similar result was indicated by the research in the paper (2002): “Testing Causality Between Team Performance and Payroll”. In this paper National Baseball League and English Premiere League were investigated. The higher team results were, the more money the players subsequently gained (Hall, S., Szymanski, S. and Zimbalist, A. (2002)). 
Articles most relevant to the subject of my research were included in this review of scientific literature. They analyze factors influencing financial success. There are many foreign articles relevant to this subject. For example, in Carmichael F., McHale I., Thomas D. article a conclusion was made that the financial base of the club is closely bonded with the results in the Premiere League, due to the fact that it has the biggest impact on the club's tournament position. Clubs ranked with top places are most likely to have a higher income up to the season, than the clubs at the bottom of the table. Of course, this work didn't consider all the factors and revenue streams. English Premier League has a lot of ares that weren't yet considered in research. 

Methodology and procedure
First of all, it's necessary to investigate the influence of sports results. To do this, it's necessary to collect data on places, that each team held at the end of each season. An analysis will be done and the result will be shown with the help of research methods selected before.
To conduct the study, it'll be necessary to use such quantitative methods as analysis of official statistical data, method of correlation analysis and statistical-economic method. Theoretical-descriptive method, based on the previously studied theories and hypotheses will also be used. Required calculations, correlation distribution and charts will be calculated by using Excel. It is also necessary to use an econometric Eviews package to build a regression model.

Predicted outcomes
During the given research, three main factors that have an impact on the financial and sporting success of English Premiere League clubs were identified: a place in the standings, game entertainment and matches attendance. Thus, clubs tournament position is indeed connected with their financial results. According to the statistical results, the higher is the team's place, the more revenue it gets. 
Regarding the influence of entertainment, it's difficult to give a definite answer, as it's not always possible to consider true impact of variables with the method of correlation analysis. As for attendance, according to the results of this study, there is a positive correlation between attendance and the number of team victories. 
Following the results of this work, it's necessary to make some conclusions regarding issues considered and factors investigated. The first thing to say is that English Premiere League is the richest and most competitive league. Uniform distribution system of revenue from the sale of broadcasting rights allows the clubs to avoid financial gulf between the top and the bottom places of the standings. This fact, in turn, affects the highest competitiveness between the clubs. 

Limitations of research
This study doesn't include all the necessary factors that could possible affect the revenue earned. 
Analyzing English Premiere League it's necessary to consider only the top clubs of this league. 
It's not always possible to consider true impact of variables with the method of correlation analysis. 


