Introduction
Football is considered to be the most popular sport in the world. Really, football is not just a game, but a multi-billion dollar business. The amount of money generated by the football industry grows exponentially year by year. In the modern world the football players are usually seen as real assets that have its own value. There are many factors that decide the value of a particular player. The place where clubs can trade and exchange their assets in context of player is transfer market.
 Despite the fact that many studies are dedicated to European professional football and transfer market, there are very few papers devoted to professional Russian football. The potential reason for that is its dynamic in business process and global integration used to be slower compared to other European transfer markets. But over the past decade Russian football transfer market has become one of the fastest growing and might be a subject of interest to researches in the field of professional football.
In the previous studies of players’ valuation on transfer market most authors focused on individual level and investigated the determinants of a separate player value. However, individual football players should not be seen as performing in a vacuum, since football is a team sport. As soon as football is simultaneously one of the least individualized sports, it is difficult to attribute football team performance to identifiable and discrete qualities or actions of individual athletes. Perhaps this relatively low level of individualization contributes to the popularity of the game, but it does not help the rational valuation of individual assets in the business.
Moreover, in the extant researches a completed transfer fee collected from press is usually used as a dependent variable. Nevertheless, it cannot be ruled out entirely that the cases where contract duration and transfer fee have been published in the popular press are not a random sample of all transfers that have occurred over the period under investigation. Using market values instead of transfer ones could solve the problem, because market value is reliable expert estimation of player in the transfer market context which is publicly available for every professional player and club for a long chronological scale.
Thus, the main goal of this paper is to determine the factors that have an impact on professional clubs’ market value in Russian Football Premier League. In order to reach the goal stated above, it is necessary to solve some secondary research problems. In this way, it is required to select a group of factors potentially affecting the clubs’ market value, collect data on these factors and team’s market value and choose the most relevant estimation method.
The knowledge about factors that determine average market value of professional football clubs may allow the teams’ management to make rational decisions in the context of distribution of financial assets. Moreover, the degree of impact that various factors have on team’s market value shows the ability of Russian Football Premier League to improve and explore sports potential of players in the context of specific tournament. 
The remainder of the paper is set out as follows. The next section shows the literature review. After that data collection and research design are described. The following section offers some predicted results and the last one contains research limitations.

Theoretical background
In order to detect main determinants of football clubs’ average market value it is necessary to provide analysis of teams’ behavior in the financial and sports contexts. Since their business strategies may give valuable clues in describing and formation of players and clubs prices on the market. 
The first paper which was focused on professional sports market and professional clubs behavior belongs to Rotenberg (1956). He provides systematic and structural analysis of professional baseball leagues in USA. According to Rottenberg baseball clubs follow profit maximizing strategy.
However, in contrast to Rotenberg (1956), Sloane (1969, 1971) examining football industry states that professional football clubs are more likely to follow utility or win maximization strategy than the profit maximization one.  Following Sloane (1969, 1971) such inequity in attitudes between football and baseball clubs emerges from many distinctions in leagues regulation and structure. This tendency in sports clubs’ behavior has gained many followers among the researchers analyzing football market (Frick, 2007; Garcia-del-Barro & Szymanski, 2006; Poli & Ravenel, 2008; Downward & Dawson, 2000). 
The knowledges of football clubs’ economic activity in the context of market creates a crucial base for studies that focus on valuation of athletes. Relying on utility maximization strategy of teams’ behavior Carmichael and Thomas (1993) create the first theoretical and empirical model determining football player transfer value. Academics argue that player value on transfer market depends on three main groups of factors such as player’s characteristics, seller club’s characteristics and buyer club’s ones. 
However, it should be noticed that in current research buyer club’s characteristics cannot provide additional explanation power since market value of clubs, which is studied in this paper and presents an experts’ estimation of clubs’ value, is not stated during negations between clubs as compared to transfer value.
Carmichael and Thomas (1993) in their examination provide substantial evidence for using sportsman’s age and number of goals scored by player as one of the most relevant variables to explain change in their value. Similar factors are presented in a range of works studying the athletes’ valuation (Ruijg & Ophem, 2015; Berg , 2011;Polyakov & Zhukova, 2013; Dobson & Gerrard,1999; Medcalfe, 2008). Since those factors that can influence player’s value on a separate level may influence average club’s value, all the determinants of players’ valuation collected in the literature review will be examined in my study.
Furthermore, average club’s value may have strong correlation with seller’s club features. In this context, Haverkamp (2010) suggests that match attendance and taking part in Eurocups increase player’s value; consequently, these factors may have a positive impact on average team’s price. A number of other researches also take into account factors described above (Dobson & Gerrard, 1999; Dobson et al., 2000; Carmichael et al., 1999). Additional club’s characteristics such as financial base of team (budget) are applied by Berg (2011) in his research dedicated to valuation of human capital in the football player transfer market. As well as all of these attributes are crucial in formation of athletes’ price on the market they may be seen as variables in the estimation model.
In addition, there are some factors that can determine market value of clubs in football industry through indirect influence on sport results. Therefore, it is essential to examine previous researches which concentrated on correlation between sport and non-sport performance of football clubs to detect such determinants.
The papers focused on relationship between sport and financial results prove the significance of sportive outcomes in formation of financial performance and market value of team players (Szimanski & Smith, 1997; Barajas et al., 2005). Accordingly, the aspects which determine clubs’ sport performance may determine their value. In this context, former papers use points obtained by club in league as a direct measure of sport results (Szimanski & Smith, 1997; Barajas et al., 2005). Otherwise, some authors suggest to consider additional factors of sport performance such as scored and missed goals by team (Huer et al., 2010;Teslya, 2010). They argue that adding them in model will increase its explanation power and will give more opportunities in specific interpretation. The authors also note that points obtained by club and goals scored by club may be equivalents in measuring sport results (Dawson et al., 2000).  
In addition to this, the work of Rosa and Gerrard (2014) suggests that the quality of football academies training young players may have a positive effect on market value of teams’ main force since the young players are likely to be integrated in professional team in the future. That is why it seems appropriate to use football academies’ sport results to analyze determination of average clubs’ market value. 
Thus, the following factors that may influence average market value of clubs were chosen during the literature review: : points obtained by club, points obtained by football clubs’ academies, goals scored by club, goals missed by club, club’s attendance, club’s budget, age, age-squared, and a dummy for participating in Eurocups.

Methodology
The research methodology will be based on the pooled regression analysis. Since the main goal of the current investigation is to determine the factors that have an impact on professional clubs’ market value in Russian Football Premier League, average team’s value will be taken as a dependent variable in the regression model. All the factors gathered in the literature review will be included into the model as independent variables. Furthermore, the logarithm of explained variable is used due to exponential character of market values data and suggestions from previous research papers with similar topic.
The explaining variables entered in the model are following: points obtained by club, points obtained by football clubs’ academies, goals scored by club, goals missed by club, club’s attendance, club’s budget, age, age-squared, and a dummy for participating in Eurocups. It should be noticed that variables of points and goals obtained by clubs happen to be highly correlated with each other since both factors explain sports results. Consequently, two alternative regression models will be estimated where the variable of clubs sport performance will signify points and goals obtained by a particular team respectively. Thus, the estimation of two alternative models will help to avoid the problem of multicollinearity. In addition, there would be some control variables included in the equation: number of players in club, coach rank, club rank and a dummy for government ownership.
Furthermore, statistical and graphical analyses of data will be provided in order to support the views of literature and the personal assumptions on the particular subject. Moreover, a particular stage of the paper will be dedicated to data preparation for estimation procedures. Eventually, a non-linier pooled regression will be estimated by Ordinary Least Square Method.  The dummies for the years will also be included in the model to control time effects.
The sample of the research will consist of 192 observations over 12 time periods (half of the football season in Russia is a discrete period) and 24 clubs participating in Russian Football Premier League from 2011 to 2016. That is why the research sample could be defined as panel data.  The average teams’ value data will be collected from Transfermakt.de which is considered to be a reliable and authoritative electronic resource of transfer market’s data.  Clubs characteristics data will be extracted from internet resources of sport statistics such as Sport.ru, Sport box and Championat.com.

Predicted outcomes
Hopefully, I will be able to determine the factors that have a statistically significant impact on clubs’ market value. The existence of this impact will indicate that Russian Football Premier league is sportive and financial field which contributes to development of sport talents and gaming potential in the context of professional football player.
Overall, I expect to find out that all the picked factors except form missed goals by club, average club’s age and age-squared will have positive impact on average clubs’ market value. Missed goals by club are expected to have negative effect on average clubs’ market value, while average club’s age is supposed to have a quadratic relationship with clubs ‘market value. Besides, I assume that points obtained by club and goals scored by club are equivalent in describing sports performance and their impact on average market value is quite similar. 

Limitations of research
In this section of the research it is necessary to point out some research limitations to denote frameworks and confines linked with specific features of statistical analysis and particular data.
Firstly, club’s market value is an expert estimation of team’s players on the transfer market, while transfer value is a price of completed transaction between clubs for a particular player. Despite the fact that market value is just a market expectation of club’s value gained by experts, there are some reliable reasons which were discussed earlier in the paper for choosing it for estimation.
Secondly, the data collected only for clubs in Russian Football Premier League may lead to the non-randomness of the sample. However, since the main aim of the current work is studying only Russian clubs such sample is reasonably relevant and non-random only in case of studying all professional clubs in the world. 
At last, it is crucial to mention that the time period of the research involves the global financial crisis. Therefore, this fact may shift the sample and change estimation results. However, it was noted earlier that in order to control time effects dummies for years will be included in the model.