Introduction
Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) are supposed to be a company public face, since they directly impact upon the distribution of firm’s resources and eventually firm value. If CEOs were perfect substitutes for each other, they would be interchangeable inputs within the production process, and thus unable to affect company performance. However, in real life managers tend to differ in the number of characteristics like education and skill level, experience, viewpoints and preferences so that corporate policy and financial results of a company depend on who has a CEO position (Aivazian, 2009).
Due to the fact that managers are different from one another changes in top-management may signal changes in future strategy and perspectives of a firm that reflect different abilities of a new CEO. That is the potential reason for increased attention to CEO succession in academic and business literature. 
The extant empirical literature has documented a negative association between CEO turnover probability and prior firm performance. These results are consistent with the idea of boards playing an important role in controlling and disciplining poorly performing CEOs. However, we know relatively little about the effect on company performance of CEO departures. That is why this study focuses on the company results reaction to the announcement of a CEO change.
The performance consequences of a CEO turnover are important to investigate since changes in company performance may have a significant impact on the firm itself, its management, stakeholders and other market participants. For example, stock prices change may influence financial and investment strategy of a company through the cost of capital and ultimately alter its value. The level of share market returns is also a question of interest to the investors as volatile stock prices affect their investment value and may create some beneficial arbitrage opportunities. 
Thus, the present paper investigates the impact on company performance of an important event in the life of a firm, a change in its executive leadership. As far as voluntary CEO departures are unlikely to be associated with internal firm performance, in my research I would like to concentrate on forced CEO turnover. Specifically, the research question addressed in this study is whether CEO dismissals are followed by improved firm performance as measured by current and lagged market to book company value and share market returns. 
In order to answer the above question, a number of other issues are going to be resolved at a secondary level. Among the main secondary issues are: a) What indicators could be used as measures of firm performance? b) Are there any other factors that can influence company performance apart from CEO change? c) What classification model of departure type should be used to distinguish between forced and voluntary departures? d) Do performance changes differ between voluntary and forced departures?
The rest of the paper is organised as follows. Prior literature is reviewed in the first section. It is followed by a description of the data collection and research design. Our predicted results are presented in the third section, and the last one contains some research limitations.

Theoretical background
The researches surrounding CEO turnover can be divided into two main sections. The first one investigates the pre-announcement period and variables affecting the likelihood of CEO turnover. The second section examines the post-announcement period and consequences of CEO turnover on company performance and capital markets.
Many papers have documented a negative association between CEO turnover probability and firm performance as measured by current or lagged accounting performance or share market returns (Gregory-Smith et al., 2009; Brickley, 2003; Leker & Salomo, 2000; Warner et al., 1988; Weisbach, 1988). In the context of company performance measurement, Dikolli et al. (2008) propose to asses firm functioning through the number of negative performance surprises. Another approach is presented by Farrell and Whidbee (2003), which examine deviation from expected performance as an indicator of company performance. However, it is noticed by Engel et al. (2003) that a board’s decision to dismiss a particular top-manager is likely to depend not on a single measure, but on a set of measures considered as a whole. 
In accordance with Dikolli et al. (2008), CEOs are only likely to remain on their positions if company corporate results are satisfactory for its stakeholders. This argument is consistent with the assertion that CEO is primarily responsible for the company results and more likely to be dismissed in case of poor company performance. Similarly, Denis and Denis (1995) provide evidence that CEO dismissals are preceded by large and significant declines in operating performance of a company. 
In contrast to empirical studies depicting negative relationship between CEO turnover and company performance, Suchard et al. (2001) do not find any statistically significant association between CEO departure and share market performance for a number of Australian companies. Nevertheless, the results of this particular study could be due to voluntary departures also included into examination, which usually do not appear to have any relation to company performance. Besides, these findings could be caused by the peculiarity of Australian corporate governance since the research sample includes only Australian companies. In summary, the reviewed literature provides quite solid evidence for the fact that CEO is more likely to be dismissed if his company underperforms.
The second section of literature surrounding CEO changes focuses on the post-announcement period. As it was stated before, this set of papers investigates the reaction of company performance and capital market participants to announcements of CEO departures. 
The consequences of CEO replacement for company financial performance are quite ambiguous. There is some evidence that CEO dismissal has a positive effect on company performance (He et al., 2011). Nevertheless, there is also evidence for performance declines associated with CEO succession (Evans et al., 2010). Other studies conclude that there is no any significant relationship between CEO turnover and company performance (Chang & Wong, 2009).
Several studies have found some significant changes in stock return volatility at the announcement of a CEO turnover (Clayton et al., 2005; Intintoli, 2013). In this context, Clayton et al. (2005) report on the significant increase in stock price volatility following CEO change. In particular, using a sample of 872 CEO changes they find that forced CEO turnover causes a stronger increase in volatility than voluntary CEO departure does. Nevertheless, the researchers do not find any evidence of improvement in company performance associated with CEO turnover. 
 There are a number of papers demonstrating that CEO departures are associated with improved post-turnover company performance. He et al. (2011) in their examination of American insurance companies have found a statistically significant positive effect of the change in company top-management on firm performance measured by capital and revenue return. Huson et al. (2004) have also found a significant improvement in company performance caused by the change of its leader, particularly in case of outside succession. In contrast to the findings of Huson et al. (2004), Karaeli (2007) shows that there is no any statistically significant difference between post-succession company financial results in case of external and internal managerial replacement. 
However, improvement of company results is not supported by all the researchers. As it was already mentioned earlier, Evans et al. (2010) state that CEO change is negatively associated with the ?rm’s post-turnover ?nancial performance. 
As company performance depends on CEO decisions and his corporate policy, CEO change is expected to affect stock prices. However, the extant literature does not bring any clear conclusion on whether stock prices reaction to CEO changes is positive or negative. While there is a range of works that conclude to positive reaction (Huson et al., 2001), other studies find some evidence of negative reaction (Dedman & Lin, 2002) or no significant reaction (Warner et al., 1988). 
Thus, the literature review does not paint any clear picture as to whether CEO dismissals lead to improvement of company financial results. That is why the main goal of this investigation is to analyze the company performance reaction to the announcement of its CEO dismissal. This issue has major implications for company itself and its stakeholders. By investigating the impact of CEO change on company performance we bring information on the effectiveness of internal corporate control. If internal monitoring mechanisms are effective, management changes should be followed by large improvement in company operational performance. Besides, we provide information on how CEO replacement influences the company operational performance and ultimately its value. 

Methodology 
This study investigates the effect on company performance of a significant event in the life of a firm, a change in its Chief Executive Officer (CEO). In this investigation I intend to identify and estimate both short-run and long-run effects of CEO dismissal. Long-run effect primarily reflects the underlying economics of the firm and reveals the managerial ability of a new CEO, as opposed to the short-term effect that reflects the uncertainty surrounding future expectations of the firm at the time of the announcement.
In order to estimate short-run effect event study methodology is used. Specifically, the event study is applied to assess the impact of CEO dismissal announcements on company stock price. The window period is 20 days around the CEO dismissal announcement: 10 days before the announcement date, the announcement date, and 10 days after the announcement date. The market model will be implemented to measure abnormal returns. The significance of abnormal returns will be computed using cross-sectional t-statistics. 
The impact of CEO dismissal on long-term company performance can be estimated by a simple regression model, where the dependent variable is a company market-to-book value.  Assuming that it will take some time for a new CEO to realize his abilities and corporate policy, it seems more appropriate to examine market-to-book value of a company one year after CEO dismissal.
The main independent variable of the research is a dummy CEO change that is given 1 when the CEO is dismissed and 0 if there is no CEO departure. As far as there may be a set of additional factors, apart from CEO dismissal that may affect company value one year after CEO change, the range of other independent variables related to CEO and company characteristics will also be entered into the regression. If market-to-book value of a company responds positively to the board’s decision to dismiss a particular top-manager, this decision can be considered as positive for company and shareholders wealth. 
To investigate the research question addressed in the current paper, a sample of largest European companies releasing an announcement of a CEO departure between the years 2008 and 2014 will be analyzed. The financial data related to the firms in the sample will be extracted from Amadeus database, Bloomberg terminal and companies websites. Companies annual reports, analysts reports, business and academic press, and other media reports will be analyzed to find out the CEO turnover dates and the type of each departure (forced or voluntary). Within this investigation CEO departure will be categorized as forced if it is stated either in the official announcement or media reports.

Predicted outcomes
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is a key person of a company which defines the firm’s strategy. Therefore, a CEO turnover is a signal from the company that reveals future changes in company’s management and perspectives. The incoming CEO is likely to change firm corporate policy and development strategy, fix unprofitable decisions of previous CEO, and increase internal control. Thus, the incoming CEO is expected to improve firm performance and increase its value. 
According to this idea, I will hopefully be able to find out an improved company performance following the announcement of its CEO dismissal. Specifically, I expect to find some solid evidence for the CEO dismissal leading to increased company value and stock prices. These findings may be of considerable practical value for company itself, its shareholders and other capital market participants. The knowledge of CEO turnover consequences on company performance could help all the market participants in making the most rational decisions according to market conditions.  

Limitations of research
This study has several limitations. Firstly, the classification of CEO departures is quite subjective since media and analyst reports are used for understanding the context of each CEO change and classifying it as either voluntary or forced. In this way, relying on media reports may lead to inaccurate classifications. Secondly, forced resignations are rare events. Therefore, a relatively small percentage of sample management changes classified as forced could distort research results. Thirdly, the scope of this research excludes some CEO turnover factors which could add further insights into the triggers of the CEO change. In particular, some external factors affecting CEO turnover like economic cycles and industry specific constraints are not considered. An interesting avenue for future research also involves studying of post-turnover company performance in case of internal and external succession. 