Introduction
Due to the serious deterioration of the environment doctors are constantly assessing the population’s level of health. During these assessments they registered the increased incidence of asthma and allergy among children of Perm Krai. Moreover, many parents have faced the problem of the absence of specialized Asthma&Allergy center for diagnostics and treatment. That is why the creation of such center has become an urgent priority in our city. Thus, this study is devoted to the development of a business plan for a specialized Asthma&Allergy center for diagnostics and treatment for children. 
According to Business Dictionary “a business-plan is a set of documents prepared by a firm's management to summarize its operational and financial objectives for the near future (usually one to three years) and to show how they will be achieved”. The development of a business plan from here is crucial for those entrepreneurs that need to assess risks and attract investors.
To give a broad theoretical basis to this study we investigated regulatory normative documents of Russian Federation, basic literature on the topic and works in the problem area. We would like to list some of the articles and monographs that lay at the basis of our project. These are Burke, A., & Greene, F. «The multiple effect of business planning on new venture performance », Mason, C., & Stark M.  «What do investors look for in a business plan? », Honig, B., & Karlsson, T. «Institutional forces and the written business plan», Haag, A. «Writing a successful business plan» and others.
The general problem this study will attempt to investigate can be formulated as follows: «How to create a private clinic business-plan with a pay-back period equal to three years or less? ». Hence two hypotheses need to be verified in this article:
1. There is a growing demand for treatment of allergic diseases in Perm Krai.
2. The range of services offered by public institutions and private clinics can not fully satisfy the needs of parents and their children
Thereby the overall goal of this project is to develop an effective business-plan for a highly specialized private clinic. We came up with several tasks to achieve the main goal of the study:
1. To study theoretical basis of business-planning.
2. To identify market demand for treatment of allergic diseases.
3. To conduct a competitive analysis.
4. To assess risks and to develop a financial model.
5. To estimate profitability and economic effectiveness of the project.
The research proposal consists of four major parts: theoretical background, methods, predicted outcomes and limitations of the research. The first part is devoted to the overview of the existing literature on the topic. The second part consists of the brief description of methods and procedures used in the study. The third part reflects the significance of the work and the outcomes we expect to get out of the current research. The last part includes the limitations we restrict our study to. 
Consequently, the contribution of this study, if any, will consist of the movement towards the creation of the Asthma&Allergy center which will not only be profitable, but will have a specific social function – to provide help to the sick children 

Theoretical background
This part of the project proposal will explain the search process in reviewing the vast litterature on business-planning. The necessity of business plan development was questioned early by scientists and businessmen.On the one hand,the majority of business support professionals claim that business planning is an important and significant stage in a new business set up. Andrew Burke, Stuart Fraser and Francis J. Greene (2010) find that by developing a business plan enterpreneurs put forward employment growth. They also argue that business plans work best for those firms that plan product or service launch. Annette B. Haag (2013) believes that most companies fail because company’s owners are not capable of developing an effective business plan.  From her point of view it is difficult to overestimate the importance of well-prepared business plan. She thinks that it not only helps the owners to find investors but also serves as a strategic orientation if reviewed regularly. 
Mattew Stark and Colin Mason (2004) stress that bankers, venture capitalists and business angels use different investment criteria and business owners should customize their business plans according to the needs of these investors. They report that bankers are mostly interested in financial aspects and pay little attention to market issues whereas venture capitalists and business angels show interest in both financial and market aspects.Business angels in turn stress the importance of the enterpreneur and investor fit.
However, some feel that business planning is not as necessary as it is generally assumed. Thus Simon Bridge and Cecilia Hegarty (2012)  suggest that for many nascent organisations there are better approaches than creating a business plan, for example, effectuation-based exploration approach. «This approach accepts that the future is uncertain and unpredictable and therefore suggests proceeding to explore it accordingly». (p.445) They notice that sometimes business plan based approach is forced onto some owners by business support professionals even if it is not appropriate in particular case. According to them exploration approach is «a general-purpose tool which is applicable to many aspects of life, including business while business plan based approach is more of a special-purpose tool which is applicable to some, but not all, business situations» (p.451). Thereby authors recommend using a general-purpose tool first. Colin Jones, Andy Penaluna, Harry Matlay and Kathryn Penaluna (2013) look at the problem from a different point of view. They investigate the usefulness of a student business plan and claim that under certain circumstances it is preferably to use “approaches directly focused on customer discovery and explicit testing of assumptions”. Benson Honig and Tomas Karlsson (2004) investigated 396 start-ups and found no positive effect of business plan on a new company’s profitability. Furthermore, they did not report any effects of business planning on the start-up’s survival.
As mentioned earlier, there is a considerable disagreement among scholars regarding whether to develop a business plan or not . But still the majority of them unanimously agree on certain points: 
1. The effectiveness of a business plan directly depends on the goal it is created for and the conditions in which it is being used.
2. There are no ready-made solutions and every enterpreneur should develop its own unique business plan.
3. If a start-up seeks investors it can not do without a well-prepared and executed business plan.
Taking all of the above into account and the fact that the private clinic this paper is devoted to seeks investments from business angels or venture capitalists we will develop a business plan paying attention to both financial and market aspects. As we are limited in space this part of the proposal  will be stopped here.

Methodology and procedure
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study. Currently, in Russian Federation there is no unified procedure of business plan development. There are, however, some widely used methodologies. For instance, United Nations Industrial Development Organization methodology, World Bank for Reconstruction and Development methodology and Sberbank methodology. It is necessary to note, that every methodology pinpoints different key aspects. For instance, United Nations Industrial Development Organization methodology devotes considerable attention to cost-effectiveness analysis. World Bank for Reconstruction and Development methodology in turn focuses on market analysis whereas Sberbank pays great attention to financial aspects of a business plan.  In this study we will use United Nations Industrial Development Organization methodology as it is the most complete one and of the highest demand in our country. According to the structure of such methodology we will use methods and procedures which are listed below.
Methods:
1. PEST analysis. This method is a marketing tool which is used to assess business environment by investigating four factors: political, economical, socio-cultural and technological. This method enables the possibility of estimating the external economic situation.
2. SWOT analysis. This is a classical method which is used to analyze both internal and external factors through picking out the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats of a company. The value of such analysis lays in its universality and flexibility.
3. Competitor analysis. This is a reliable method which is based on the analysis of strengths and weaknesses of the competitors. It is argued that competitor analysis must be undertaken not only at the stage of the company’s creation but systematically.
4. Market analysis. This type of analysis is used with the help of a SWOT analysis. It includes the investigation of market size, trends, growth rates, market profitability et ceteras. This method is a very important stage of a strategic planning.
Procedures: 
1. Marketing plan. This procedure includes a set of methods that describes  a firm's marketing and advertising efforts for a certain period. It helps to identify company’s target audience and its key needs, and contributes to better communication between top management and employees.
2. Operational plan. This is a detailed procedure that involves strategic planning and determines the company’s budget for a period of one to three years. This type of plan is aimed at providing personnel with the company’s strategic goals and tasks to achieve these goals.
3. Financial plan. This procedure reflects the predicted income and expenses of the start-up. It takes into account all the transactions that are supposed to be made over time, for example investments. The objectives of financial planning can be formulated as follows: to determine capital requirements and capital structure, to frame financial policies et ceteras.
Moreover, to obtain data for this project we will use such sources as Sanitary and Hygienic Norms of Russian Federation, Federal State Statistics Service, SPARK-Interfax, Euromonitor International, open sites of the existing Asthma&Allergy private clinics and so forth.

Predicted outcomes
This part of the research proposal is devoted to the results which we expect to obtain during the study. Hopefully, in this work we will be able to develop an effective business plan for a highly specialized private clinic paying considerable and adequate attention to each section of this plan. We also expect to embrace a broad theoretical basis of business planning, define the market demand for treatment of allergic diseases and conduct a competitive analysis. Besides this, we hope to assess risks, develop a financial model and estimate profitability and economic effectiveness of the project.

Limitations of the Research
Current research is limited by the fact that business environment is changing rapidly and it is quite difficult to predict such factors as stage of the economic cycle, exchange rate, Central Bank of Russia’s refinancing rate, federal or local changes in the law, implementation of new technologies and so on. Although there are many forecasts devoted to the description of the future economic situation, they are often inaccurate and mutually contradictory.  Beyond that, there is no publicly available information on the exact number of children of Perm Krai who suffer from asthma and allergy.  In accordance with the above, the prediction of the demand for treatment for these diseases is associated with some difficulties. But we should end on optimistic note. As we can see, significant risks are associated with the inability to assess external factors that will influence the clinic’s profitability. However, we will make attempts to minimize these risks by evaluating them and including them in the financial plan.