Introduction
Nowadays interdisciplinary studies are generating considerable interest since the connection between different sciences is becoming obvious. The present research can be referred to this cluster of papers because it considers the issue from two disciplines perspectives: economics and sociology.  The present study analyzes omnivorous consumers' behavior in the book market. On the one hand, omnivorism investigation is mostly sociologists’ contribution since it refers to class analysis. On the other hand, a great amount of theoretical and empirical economists’ papers is devoted to the consumer behavior. Its determinants’ understanding gives more opportunities for the market optimization.
It should be noticed that the researched good itself is highly specific. In contrast with other cultural goods markets, the book market is poorly supported by a government. For this reason, it can be referred to as a normal good market where retailers maximize their profits and compete for the market share increase. On the other hand, consumer behavior in the book market is strongly associated with peculiarities of the good as a cultural product. 
The term ‘cultural omnivore’ was introduced by Richard Peterson in 1992. Rossman and Peterson (2005) offered the following definition for the notion: “The omnivore is a new form of cultural consumer who uses conspicuous diversity” (p.1). According to Rossman and Peterson (2005), omnivorism phenomenon has emerged in the early 1990s, and prevalence of such preferences was fluctuating. The shift of highbrow tastes towards omnivorous structure has been observed in different societies and fields which resulted in åmergence of the need for this class study. Omnivorism in music and film viewing was often analyzed, but still there is a lack of papers, studying omnivorism in reading preferences.
While sociologists study omnivores as a cultural class and economists try to reveal consumers’ consumption pattern, the present paper is a combination of these research directions. The general purpose of this study is to assess the omnivouresness degree impact on consumer behavior in the book market case. Previous researches revealed that omnivores’ genre composition differs essentially. The author assumes omnivore consumption pattern should lead to some deviation in frequency and amount of purchases as well. 
The ultimate goal is to give some recommendation for the book chain store managers. Consumers’ behavior investigation gives understanding of retailers’ constraints and opportunities. For example, the price elasticity indicator is necessary for an optimal price policy, and readers’ tastes composition is essential for assortment planning.  
The present investigation has a distinctive feature from previous researches: our calculations will be based on chain store scanner data which is not conventional for the cultural class investigation. It is explained by the fact that omnivorism study is a sociologists’ contribution. However, the author believes in feasibility of revealed preference method employment. In addition, using Discrete Choice Model I will point out how the omnivorism phenomenon influences consumer behavior. 
To answer the research question the author should perform following tasks:
to choose the most appropriate measure for omnivorousness degree based on consumers’ purchase histories;
to analyze the dataset through econometric tools use;
to interpret the analysis results.
The present research proposal has the following structure. The Theoretical Background section reviews related literature, focusing on the conventional methods in the field. Methodology section gives surface data analysis and describes the method which will be employed. In the last section predicted results and limitations of the present research are represented. 

Theoretical background 
As the present paper is an interdisciplinary study, the basis for it is provided by two literature fields: demand modeling and omnivorousness phenomenon. Demand modeling requires the definition of good specificity and demand factors determination. Omnivorousness phenomenon review serves as a rationale for the existence of the omnivores’ group and reveals the most appropriate omnivorousness degree measures. 
To start with specificity of the studied product, it is necessary to mention Canoy’s, Ours’s and Ploeg’s (2006) contribution. Their book market review provides a solid grounding for understanding of a book as a good. According to the authors, one of the most important characteristic of books is that they are experience goods, i.e. their quality cannot be assessed by a consumer before the consumption. However, some signals help consumer to estimate the expected utility: author, book reviews, word-of-mouth and others. This quality makes marketing one of crucial factors for book sales. Marketing helps sellers to attract attention to a book and emphasize those properties that are preferred by a consumer (Shehu, Prostka, Schmidt-Stolting, Clement & Blomeke, 2014). To create an effective marketing campaign one should understand what factors are important for consumers. Since the need for their determination arises, related works were conducted. Some of them regard signals, which readers consider, as ‘regimes of coordination’. This notion stems from studies of Kaprik (2011). 
As books are referred to as cultural goods, understanding of readers preferences is an important issue for both sociologists and economists. From sociology perspective, key question concerns the connection between people’s socio-demographic characteristics and their tastes in literature. Sociologists are concentrated on readers’ habits rather than books’ purchases.   At the same time, economists’ interests include other aspects of readers’ behavior, characterizing them as ‘economic men’.  Key issues are determinants and characteristics of the demand for books, like price elasticity or quality signals.
Some existent studies investigate various aspects of readers’ characteristics and behavior. A general quantitative analysis of reading habits, based on stated preferences, was conducted by Fernandez-Blanco, Prieto-Rodriguez, Suarez-Pandiello (2015). Groups of variables applied for the study of readers’ behavior were common for stated data. Authors suggested that four groups of factors influencing the demand for reading exist: socio-economic characteristics, cultural preferences, cultural consumption and cultural capital. Unfortunately, the lack of such data prevents these determinants analysis by revealed preferences method. 
Sociologists regard various classes of readers whose existence was evidenced by numerous empirical studies. However, there is no convention about particular class range. For example, Rees, Vermunt and Verboord (1999) employed latent class analysis and revealed the existence of four classes in Netherlands: nonreaders (67%), lowbrow readers (13%), omnivore readers (4%) and highbrow readers (15%). At the same time, readers’ classes in Kaluga which were found by Zavisca (2005) has slightly different pattern: nonreaders (15%), omnivore (36%), sentimental (29%) and macho (20%). 
It should be noticed that omnivores are distinguished from other classes in recent studies on cultural classes. Moreover, cultural omnivorism itself is a point of interests as well. Generally, omnivorism investigation is mostly sociologists’ contribution since it refers to class analysis. Despite the fact that understanding of classes’ preferences may be useful for consumers’ behavior modeling, cultural class division is not a conventional concept for economists. 
It is difficult to overestimate Rossman’s and Peterson’s (1992) innovative idea of omnivorism phenomenon. According to the researchers, omnivorousness has emerged in the early 1990s and the prevalence of such preferences was fluctuating. Omnivorousness is suggested to have shifted snobbishness in the middle class. The shift in consumption pattern has been observed in different societies and fields (Rossman and Peterson, 2005). That change resulted in åmergence of the need for this class study. 
At the moment omnivorism determinants are an issue of popular discussions. University education is considered to make people open to new and broaden their range of preferences (Warde,  Wright & Gayo-Cal, 2007). In order to explain the emergence of omnivorous tastes, the phenomenon was thoroughly examined. Bryson (1996) supposed that omnivore preferences might be inherent in personal trait of tolerance and showed that omnivores in USA were more liberal on racial and political matters. Another reason for the rise in omnivores’ share is that these tastes are socially profitable because it increases the probability of common interests’ existence.
Crucial alteration in pattern characterizes music and reading consumption. Fernandez-Blanco, Perez-Villadoniga and Prieto-Rodriguez (2015) who studied profiles of music audience distinguish between selective omnivores and high degree omnivores. In contrast with high degree omnivores, selective ones consume fewer music genres. Using Spain population questionnaire, authors revealed that average number of genres for selective omnivores made up 5.21 while for high degree omnivores it was 11.87. At the same time the average number of genres for all respondents was approximately 3.11. 
Generally, omnivorousness is identified in terms of volume and composition. The first type suggests that range of consumed genres is wide: more genres and items are consumed by a person, the higher his/her level of omnivorousness. The second type restricts preferences profile by distinct genres, usually including highbrow and lowbrow. In that case, people’s ability to consume culture goods with dissimilar characteristics reflects their omnivore preferences. However, there is no determined boundary between highbrow and lowbrow culture which leads to the problem of measurement (Warde,  Wright & Gayo-Cal, 2007). For this reason, the contemporary mainstream is the measurement by genre number. Unfortunately, the standard measurement of the omnivorousness degree, represented by a huge share of related studies, is not effective since it does not penalize for the genre similarity. Following Lizardo (2014), I assume that it is crucial to take into consideration genres overlap. 
All in all, previous omnivorism studies were based on stated preferences which may lead to biased results. The present research uses revealed preferences method and considers the phenomenon from a completely different perspective. Moreover, it is potentially important for practical implications in marketing and management. 

Methodology and procedure
This section is intended to describe data and methods appropriate for their analysis. In addition, it is necessary to provide the most appropriate method of omnivorousness degree measurement.
Database consists of purchase records from Saint-Petersburg chain stores for time period from 2012 to 2015. It contains information about book attributes and shop characteristics; however, omnivorousness degree indicator is not available. 
In order to assess the omnivorism impact on consumer preferences, the dataset will be restricted to loyal consumers who have discount cards. Availability of their purchase histories gives an opportunity to measure the omnivorousness degree. It will be calculated through the purchase histories by Lizardo’s approach (2014). His formula enables more effective measure than the number of genres bought by a consumer because it penalizes for the genre similarity:
where ?EO?_i – effective omnivorousness,
?OV?_i – omnivorousness by volume,
p_kj – weighted audience overlap for genres j and k.
At the next stage essential complexity expected is choice and consideration sets reconstruction. The choice set problem is possible to be overcome through the assessment of time gap, during which a book was not bought.  Concerning consideration set, it will be restricted in accordance with a consumer’s purchase history.
The goal of the research will be achieved by the development of regression analysis trough Discrete Choice Modeling. As good alternatives are multiple, Mixed Multiple Logit will be employed. It will serve the purpose of the present inquiry since it models alternative choice probability depending on its attributes (X_J) and consumer’s omnevorousness degree (?EO?_i):
At the final stage the comparative analysis of omnivores based on the obtained parameters of Discrete Choice Model will be conducted. The following hypotheses are put forward:
H1: omnivores’ price elasticity is lower than average;
H2: frequency and amount of purchases are higher for omnivores.

Predicted outcomes 
Consumer behavior modeling is expected to reveal differences in consumption patterns of omnivores. In accordance with H1price elasticity is anticipated to be lower since there are relatively more alternatives for omnivores. Another expectation concerns frequency and amount of purchases which are predicted to be higher. 
The confirmation or the refutation of the hypothesis may be of considerable practical value. In future it will be possible to use these results to regulate assortment planning, price setting and promotion of books in the chain stores. For example, the research will give information necessary for price adjustment to consumers according to their omnivorousness degree and price elasticity indicator. 
Revealed preferences method, which will be employed in the present study, is easier to apply for some practical goals. In contrast to previous empirical researches in the retail field, our study does not ignore social aspects of consumer behavior. 

Limitations of the Research
Unfortunately, revealed preferences method has a substantial limitation: the lack of consumers’ socio-demographical characteristics data. Further experiments combining stated and revealed preferences methods may yield intriguing findings. However, at the stage questionnaire data is not available. Another limitation concerns assessment bias as a result of incorrect choice set reconstruction.  This is an unpleasant consequence of Discrete Choice Model based on revealed data.  
But I should end on an optimistic note. Despite the listed limitations, the present research combines advances of both Discrete Choice Model and Class Analysis. While the results of omnivores’ class analysis will be employed in practice our Discrete Choice Model will be more informative from individual characteristics perspective than other models based on revealed preferences data. 


