Introduction
One of the main objectives of corporate finance is to assess the influence of financial decisions on the market value of a company. If a firm is listed on the market, its market value can be defined as the total market value of shares of the company. Thus, it is possible to track changes in stock prices instead of the firm value. However, the market is not perfect, so managers or potential investors need to consider quite various factors influencing stock prices. For instance, it is possible to allocate innovation activity of the company. 
This choice can be attributed to several reasons. Creation of new products or production technologies distinguishes the company from competitors and contributes to the growth of income. Among other things, innovations can enable the company to occupy a monopoly position, which is also reflected in the share price. Nevertheless, innovation requires additional time, money and other costs. Public companies are able to raise additional funds from the stock market. It is therefore important to examine the possible influence of news about innovations of the company on the change in the value of its shares.
The relationship between the stock price of the firm and its innovation activity has been repeatedly studied by researchers. In the majority of works the authors are treating the phenomenon of changing of the price mainly based on expenditures of firms. Here the emphasis will not so much be laid on the impact of expenditures but rather on the impact of news. Furthermore, most of the studies carried out on the basis of the developed markets such as the US and European. Much less papers is represented by the authors exploring the emerging market. This applies to the Russian market. It is also worth noting that the issue is poorly studied on the example of Russian companies. Together with the previously presented factors, it explains the relevance of this work. Moreover, since there is currently much undeniable concern for issues of the effect on the stock price, another specific aim of the analysis involves a necessity to consider other factors. These factors can be the belonging of the company to a particular industry, type of innovation or some feature of the company. 
The research question of the study is to determine whether the news about innovative activity of the firm influences its share price. To meet this goal we will deal the following tasks:
* to consider the major theoretical concepts on the subject;
* to analyze the key works in the field;
* to consider specifics of the Russian market;
* to analyze the market reaction to news on innovative activity;
* to determine under influence of what factors the impact will change;
* to draw conclusions on the obtained results.
In the first part of the paper will be discussed the main theoretical aspects and will be reviewed the relevant literature. In the same part a description of the Russian stock market will be given. In the second part of the paper briefly will be presented to the algorithm and the sample needed for the study. The last part presents a description of the main results. In conclusion, will be carried out major outcomes and will be given recommendations.

Theoretical background
In this part the following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. Since the notion of innovation is highly broad, in the first instance it is appropriate to specify it first.
In their work, Guadalupe and co-authors define innovation as a new product or a new process (Guadalupe, 2012). However, there are more detailed differences between the types of innovation. The most common innovation is product, process and administrative. Product innovation is usually defined as a new product or service created to meet the needs of the user. Process innovations are defined as new elements introduced in the production company or a new operation for producing a product or services (Schilling, 2008). Administrative innovations are indirectly related to the main activity of the company and impact management system (Damanpour, 1984).
With respect to innovative activity, typically explore how innovation arose, how it was developed, commercialized and released (Klein, 1996). However, it should be understood that these stages cannot be compared to each other because they can lead to different effects. In this way, at an early stage of investigations there is high uncertainty and very high risk of copying innovations. As a consequence, disclosure of information about innovative activities of the company in its early stages is perceived by investors less positively (Dedman et al., 2008; Mc Namara and Baden-Fuller, 2007). The final stage of development has the opposite effect. The completion of innovation activities suggests that the company has already made significant investment and is close to obtaining the expected result. It is most likely that the maximum success of the project falls on the last stage commercialization and production. Thus, it is possible to sum up what innovations really affect the performance of companies. Analysis of existing research will help to decrease the discrepancy between theory and reality.
A considerable amount of valuable work in the field has been done to give a convincing reason to think that a mutual influence between the news and the value of shares is exists. Analyzing the works, which has taken the study of foreign markets, you can see the inconsistency of the results. Part of the works confirms the assumption that innovative activity increases the attractiveness of the company and positively affects investor reaction. A striking example of the influence of the news on share price can be found in work of Chan and co-authors (Chan, 1990). Their study, carried out on the basis of the event study analysis, is showing that the publication of news that contains information about any kind of innovation leads to a positive reaction of investors and growth stock price. These results are the most optimistic but not the only one. There are works in which the authors come to opposite results. For example, in the work of Lewis Chan and co-authors a direct relationship between R&D expenditures and future earnings per share of the company was not found (Chan, 2001). They attribute this to the fact that the stock price already includes the expectations of investors with regard to innovation. Porter and Hall believe that investors have a short investment horizon, so they do not have such an intention as the anticipation of rewards from long-term investments (Porter, 1992; Hall, 1993).
The writings on subject include a number of factors that have an impact on the effect of the publication of news. As an example, consider the work of Chan, where as a systematic factor is used dummy variable which is responsible for the industry (Chan, 1990). The author notes that the market reaction to the news of the R&D expenditure is positive only for high-tech industries. In the work of McNamara the operational phases of the innovation process, including stage of patenting prior to the conclusion of non-disclosure agreements, are considered in the role of six factors (McNamara and Baden-Fuller, 2007). In their work, Jones and co-author are considering the reaction of the stock market to announcements of R&D (Jones et al., 2003). An important aspect of their work is the fact that the level of abnormal returns largely depends on the ownership structure of the firm. The results reveals that the level of managerial ownership does not affect the level of abnormal returns, whereas institutional ownership (insurance or pension funds; investment companies; investment, commercial or retail banks) has a significant negative impact. It is due to the fact that institutional investors are focused on short-term profit.
Thus, empirical studies of stock market reaction to announcements of R&D expenditure by different authors lead to different results. Nonetheless, the problem needs to be further analyzed in terms of the heterogeneity of the stock markets. Since foreign literature explored this question based on developed markets, to conduct the study on the basis of the Russian companies it is necessary to consider the specifics of the Russian stock market.
First and foremost it is worth noting that the Russian stock market can be attributed to the class of emerging markets. Also among its features we can highlight the increased volatility. This suggests that investors may not be able to get rid of the asset with the least losses. Low liquidity of the securities can be identified as another peculiarity of the Russian stock market.
Speaking about the innovation activity in Russia, it is useful to note the lack of financing in companies and the inaccuracy of information about innovation companies. The latter is an important omission since it affects the acceptance of the decision of investor to invest and support the innovative direction of the company.

Sample and Methodology 
This part of the proposal gives special emphasis to the description the data to be analyzed. For analysis were selected Russian companies whose ordinary shares were traded on the Russian stock exchange in the period between January 2013 and April 2016. The sample of R&D announcements was collected from companies’ websites in the section "Press Room" or "News". All the news were divided into the following categories: product innovation, process innovation, organizational innovation, the "beginning", the "end" and "presentation of the results" of the innovation process. The final sample included 19 companies and 223 announcements.
Also the data on the profitability of the MICEX Index and sector indexes were collected over the period. Financial information and general characteristics of the companies were obtained from the Ruslana database and the quotes from the Thomson Reuters database. 
There are different approaches to investigating the problem of the market reaction on the news. A rigorous technique for analyzing the reaction of stock market investors is the empirical method Event Study (Binder, 1998; MacKinlay, 1997). This methodology is based on identifying abnormal returns of shares of the company related to the news release. The methodology is based on the premise that stock prices in the stock market accurately reflect current economic changes on the basis of available information, i.e. the market is efficient. 
In this paper we applied the two-step method, in which the first step is estimation abnormal returns. The second step is conducted regression analysis to identify the determinants of abnormal returns.

Predicted outcomes 
This part or the proposal is organized to report the further results which a likely to be obtained with the method mentioned. It should be stated that at that stage of formulation of research question a number of hypotheses were advanced.  These hypotheses are about a positive reaction of stock prices to the news and meaningful role of such factors as stage of innovative activity, industry and ownership structure. Most of them probably are going to be proved. 
The obtained results will be useful to companies and investors. The baseline results of the present research demonstrate how investors react on such news. Moreover, these results help us to make a conclusion about what type of information about innovation should be mentioned in the news of companies for better reactions from investors. Understanding the reaction of the Russian stock market to the publication of information about the innovative activities of the company can improve the quality of the decisions of the investors and the timeliness of publications news from the companies.

Limitations
The number of significant drawbacks are contained in the research. As the limitation, it should be mentioned the size of the data sample. To improve future results the number of observations may be increased. This will be possible by increasing two indications – the number of companies and the time period. An increasing in the time period will allow to consider the ups and downs in the economy. Another serious omission is the small number of companies belonging to a particular industry. Uneven sample does not allow to obtain the most accurate results. Also more detailed and systematic data collection will have an impact on the quality of the results. 