Introduction 
Background. The film industry has been an interesting and relevant field for research for many years. Often, the production process of a movie is very expensive, especially blockbuster production process, and this process can take several years (Orlov and Ozhegov, 2015), but also every movie project can bring large profits for studios and its producers. Since the film market is attractive as a business sector there is considerable competition in this sector because of large amount of film studios and increasing number of movies produced per year (David Polido, 2015). 
The film industry in the United States of America is currently the most developed in the world scale, as well as one of the most important industries in terms of contribution to the economy and culture of the country. In 2003 total movie revenue in the USA was $ 64 billion (Basuroy et al., 2006).
Jack Valenti, former President and CEO of the motion picture Association of America, stated that it is too hard to determine exactly what box-office success a new film will have (Delen et al., 2007) because movie is the example of experimental product (Eliashberg and Sawhney, 1994; Legoux et al., 2016). That is why studios and producers need to predict the box office of their films and find what they can do to increase the film revenue. 

Problem Statement. Basic purpose of this work is to find factors which have the greatest influence on forming the box office of a movie. In this research to achieve the aim of the study there are some tasks need to be done:
to analyze literature and other researches which contain the information about factors affecting the box office of films;
to collect and structure the data;
to choose the most appropriate methodology for the research;
to make several model in order to test all of them and choose the most appropriate and significant one;
to estimate all the factors considered in this research.

Delimitations of the Study. The data analyzed in this paper include films released in the world distribution. It means that the conclusion of the research can be used for the global market of movies. We do not analyze the local market because there are different features of the market in each country. 

Professional Significance. First of all, this study can be useful for the ones who are engaged in the filmmaking process: producers, studios, especially new ones just entered the market. This work can potentially show what movie makers can do to create a competitive product.
Moreover, this study combines lots of factors to analyze a wide list of potential keys for increasing movie box office as well as to find factors which can affect each other in different ways.  Mostly, previous researchers studied influence of a few factors excluding the rest of them. 

Definitions of Key Terms. There are some terms used in this research in case to understand the correct meaning of them:
Experimental product - a product characterized by an asymmetry in quality information between firms and consumers, the utility of which the consumer can only evaluate after using it.
Film survival rate – the length of a film`s rental in cinemas.
Star power - having a famous team member in the production crew or film`s cast. 

Literature Review 
The film industry as a growing and profitable sector has been under the supervision of sociologists for more than 30 years. Business in the movie field is important to study not only from the point of view of sociology, but also from management, economics and even psychology point of view (Basuroy and Chatterjee, 2008; Sood and Drèze, 2006). Connected with high risks, filmmaking is highly controversial business: each project is quite vague, lots of them require large investments, but in case movie becomes successful it brings fame and high revenue. All of it characterizes film production as a large-scale business (Ravid and Basuroy, 2004; Wallace et al., 1993). 
Today a lot of researches we know are focused on analyzing the box office of films and their effectiveness. This field began to develop rapidly after the "initial analysis of successful films" (Sharon P. Smith and V. Kerry Smith, 1986). However, there are many orientations and various topics in literature connected with filmmaking industry but almost all of them are aimed to explore the movie box office in economic field of researching works. Many researchers focus on analyzing sequels and franchises, other works targeted to study the psychological relationship between film and the viewer in an economic context. The studies of critical assessments as a factor influencing the economic success of films also form a large part of contemporary literature (Hirschman and Pieros, 1985; Cameron, 1995; Basuroy et al., 2003). Many researches consider sequel as an extension of the brand and like a ready-made working idea which can be used several times to increase profits and to reduce risks (Basuroy and Chatterjee, 2008). From this point of view, the sequel is potentially simpler in terms of production: the main idea is already embedded in the original film. Moreover, the sequel may have a certain audience who liked the original film and will want to see the continuation of the story (Hennig-Thurau et al., 2009). 
Consideration of the film industry in terms of changing market conditions and competition is presented in the work by Delen et al. (2007), in which the authors emphasize that the results of management decisions in the film industry are measured in millions of dollars, and managers must make their choices in a short time. According to the researchers, the success of films depends largely on the rapid use of resources and correct organizational actions. In such a dynamic environment, management organizations need to use all methods to assess the market situation and to make the right decisions. Legoux et al. (2016) find that the film survival rate falls with the increasing competition on the market. 
Orlov and Ozhegov (2015) explore the effectiveness of sequels and the differences between box offices of sequels and their original films. Authors conclude that the success of sequels is caused by the original film success, so the probability that a producer or studio decides to create a sequel is positively related to the earnings of the original film. Besides, the box office profits of sequels are higher, on average, than non-sequels can bring. Researchers note that sequels are a kind of high-quality signals for the audience, because investors will not want to invest in a project that is not interesting to the spectator. That is why lots of sequels are successful. However, the authors find that sequels tend to require longer periods of time to create and higher budgets. 
David Polido (2015) also studies sequels and as Orlov and Ozhegov concludes that sequels have greater success at the box office than films-competitors which are not sequels. Also the author finds that the short time interval between the release of the original film and the sequel promote an increase in box office of sequel. Moreover, in this work David Polido suggests a strategy to increase initial revenue based on choosing dates with less competition (those dates when there is a small number of potentially competitive films released). This strategy is confirmed by the work of Scott Sochay (1994), which examines the competition between films in the first weekend after the start of the rental. 
The movie's survival rate is studied by Legoux et al. (2016). Researchers analyze how critics` reviews, ratings, genre, budget, advertising, star cast, and other variables affect the film's rental time (and thus its potential profitability). According to the results of this study authors come to the conclusion that movies with great reviews are more likely to remain in the rental of cinemas but negative critics` feedback do not reduce this chance. Also they find that the number of screens on which the film starts has a positive effect on the length of the film`s stay in the rental. As David Polido and Scott Sochay the researchers analyze the competition on the movie production market and find that the survival rate of the film depends on competition with other films and the competition of cinemas among themselves. Moreover, the presence of a restrictive rating for movies, according to the results of the study, is also positively related with the survival rate. Furthermore, the authors note the importance of critical reviews pointing out that a significant part of the commercial effectiveness of films is associated with positive reviews from critics. 
A number of studies explore the film industry in psychological field. Eliashberg and Sawhney (1994) conduct a survey involving 43 students and present a possible way to model and measure the dynamics of people`s emotional response when they watch a movie.  Sood and Drèze (2006) analyze correlations between emotional responses to films and economic data. They find that consumers prefer sequels with a title different from the original film (without numbering) and sequels with a separate title and a different genre from the original movie usually get higher user ratings and critics` ratings than sequels with numbering in the title and same genre. 
Basuroy et al. (2006) return to the topic of box office in the film production industry exploring the effects of advertising and marketing. The authors discover that the same ad and marketing spending works better with sequels so they give their advice for studios to increase the marketing spending for sequels if it is possible it is potentially profitable. However, as  Basuroy et al. (2003) and Basuroy and Chatterjee (2008) researchers analyze movies released between 1991 and 1993, which may make insignificant results for today`s researches. 
According to the lots of researchers, one of the important factors affecting the film`s box office is star power.  Wallace et al. (1993) explore the role of an actor in the film`s revenue and help studios and managers understand how much actor`s work costs analyzing how actors bring popularity to the film and profits. As a result, the researchers conclude that actors influence the success of the film but they sign that some actors are noticeably overpaid in Hollywood, because statistically they do not affect the success of the film so much. 
Hirschman and Pieros (1985) consider cinematography as a sphere of entertainment and reveal that moviegoers are not a quality-demanding audience. This idea was continued by  Holbrook and Addis (2008) who indicate the importance of large-budget projects in making a profit. 
Holbrook and Addis as Cameron (1995) study the impact of ratings from various Internet platforms, as well as exogenous variables popular from the point of view of researchers (such as the budget of the film, the number of screens on which it was shown, marketing, and the number of Oscar nominations) on commercial success of the movie. Authors find that marketing has a positive impact on film box office but also researchers state that there is no need to use large budgets and marketing expenses to maximize critical and audience reviews. 
Ravid and Basuroy (2004) examine the commercial success of films in terms of the impact of restrictive ratings. The authors introduce dummy variables on the content of violence and erotic scenes and analyze the correlations between these variables and movie box office. Authors conclude that in order to increase revenue from movies, studios may release films with restrictive ratings (with content of violence and sexual scenes) because it is positively correlated with profits. 
In opposite to Ravid and Basutoy, Prag and Casavant (1994) find out that restrictive film ratings do not guarantee high revenues for studios and producers. Plag and Casavant examine the dependence of a film`s revenue on the overall budget and marketing, release date, rating, star power, and the quality variable that indicates whether the film is a sequel or not and come to conclusion that the budget and the presence of a star cast have a positive effect on financial success of movie. 

Methods 
In this paper we use two main methods: OLS method to predict the box office of movies and logit model of binary selection as the first step to determine the probability of creation a sequel of a movie we observe. There are works in reviewed literature which prove the importance of making this first step to estimate the movie box office (Orlov and Ozhegov, 2015). 
OLS is a type of linear least squares method aimed to calculate the unknown parameters in a regression model by minimizing the sum of the squares of the differences between the observed variable (box office) and those variables which are predicted by the linear function. That method dates back to the end of XVIII century: the first time it was used is in 1795 but OLS was discovered and published several years later, in 1805 by Andrian Marie Legendre. After that ordinary least squares method has been one of the most useful, practical and convenient methods in parametric researches.
The second method we use in our study is logistic regression method (or logit model). Logit model uses a logistic function to create a binary dependent variable, which can illustrate whether situation happens or not and so on. We use that model to identify the probability of creation a sequel, which really helps to estimate movies box office precisely (Orlov and Ozhegov, 2015).
We also calculate marginal effects for the logistic regression model to identify the most influential regressors. These effects show how the dependent variable can change if we increase or decrease regressor by one (for example, from 234 to 235).  So that, we can find the most important factors which affect on dependent variable. 
Moreover, we use McFadden coefficient of determination Akaike information criterion at the first step of this study to compare the regression models we observe and to identify the best one.

Results Anticipated  
We will use all the methods described to analyze correlations between factors and the dependent variable. We assume that such factors as budget, marketing costs, star power, the fact that the movie we analyze is a sequel and critic ratings will be positively correlated with the box office of movies we examine because there are a lot of confirmations in literature that these factors often show the positive influence on films box office (Orlov and Ozhegov, 2015; Legoux et al., 2016; Wallace et al., 1993; Holbrook and Addis, 2008). Also we believe the season when studios decide to launch their films will correlate with box office. That connection was proved by some researchers some time ago as well. We use the season scale in the process of analyzing this factor which was successfully applied in lots of works dedicated to investigate the economic success in film industry (Basuroy et al., 2003). 
However, we also expect some difficulties in the process of estimating the regression model because there is a possibility that some factors will be insignificant or they will duplicate each other. In that case these factors will be removed from the model. As a result of such manipulations we will have the most significant factors to analyze their possible influence on the dependent variable. 

Conclusion
The results of this research will show the most significant factors in forming movie box office and which factors can be improved by other ones. These factors will be ranked by their degree of significance so that studios or producers will be able to use this paper to make a strategy of creating a profitable and competitive movie project.