Introduction 
Background. The problem of corporate governance remains an important topic of scientific research, as it has a decisive impact on the company's life.  National differences in ownership structure (OS) create different models of corporate governance in different countries (Bekiris, 2013). The relationship between the operating system and the company's performance has been widely studied for more than 30 years. 
The dominant paradigm is the theory of agents (AT). From the point of view of this theory, the ownership structure is a key mechanism of CG, allowing to resolve the conflict that occurs when separating property from control, and thus improve the efficiency of the company (Bykova et al., 2017). According to recent studies, the level of concentration of companies ' property worldwide is quite high. For example, La Porta et al. (1999) found that about 40% of companies in Denmark and Germany, 50% in New Zealand, 57% in Sweden, and 75% in Ireland are owned by controlling shareholders. For Russian companies, the relevance of analysis in this area is even more obvious. According to experts, since the 2000s, the level of concentration of equity capital has grown year by year.

Problem statement. Most of the research on OS relations and the company's financial performance is focused on developed countries. It is assumed that the theories developed for developed countries such as the United States or the United Kingdom, as well as the practical results obtained for them, can only be applied to developing markets in a limited way (Tian and Zeitun, 2007).
The overall goal is to examine the increasing the concentration of ownership has a positive impact on both the market and accounting performance of companies in the context of the Russian specifics of doing business. The author suggests that a higher concentration of ownership reduces the severity of Agency conflict between different groups of shareholders and contributes to higher financial performance, which affects both the internal efficiency and the investment attractiveness of the company.

Delimitations of the study. This investigation will be severely limited in the amount of information to be collected. First of all, the study will be limited on the choice of the country, this paper will consider Russian companies. The data will reflect only those factors that are most important for this study.
Finally, it should be noted that in the study we will confine ourselves to the economic package of R, since it is better suited for this kind of research.

Professional significance. The results obtained in this study are valuable for business communities, and can also serve as arguments for decision-making by regulators. First, the expected positive impact of ownership concentration on operating and market performance indicators makes it possible to clarify the negative results of previous work in this area. Secondly, the expected results demonstrate the special role that owners play in companies in emerging markets in an undeveloped institutional environment and corporate governance. On average, such firms are more attractive for investment than companies with similar characteristics but a dispersed ownership structure.

Definitions of key terms. Jensen and Meckling (1976) defined OW in terms of a company's capital contribution. So, from this point of view, OW consists of the property of insiders and the property of external shareholders, in addition. According to Iannotta et al. (2007) the corporate structure consists of two components: the concentration of ownership and the type or nature of the company's owners.

Literature review
In the following review, we will examine both the theoretical and empirical studies. 
According to Tirole (2001), corporate governance is a mechanism for establishing a balance of interests between interested business participants.
In the context of the relationship between managers and shareholders, the CG can be considered as a set of rules and mechanisms protecting shareholders from the opportunistic behavior of managers. (Amarullah and Utama, 2017; Dolgopyatova, 2004).
It is shown that the CG system depends on the OW. From the point of view of AT, a complex ownership structure can negatively affect a firm due to a lack of motivation among shareholders to control managers. At the same time, CG through the different mechanisms partially solves this problem (Paniagua et al., 2018). Due to the existence of AT conflict, agent costs arise, which is reflected in a decrease in the value of the company.
The presence of the largest owners can reduce costs, because such shareholders have sufficient incentives and funds to control agents and prevent expropriation (Amarullah and Utama, 2017). On the other hand, this can result in a different type of cost and lead to the existence of a conflict of the type principal - principal.
Solutions to the classic agent problem are divided into two types: increasing the level of monitoring and harmonizing the interests of control and ownership (McMahon, 2007).One of the characteristics of the ownership structure is the concentration of ownership.
OC is a measure of the influence of shareholders on managers. Scientists argue that concentration is an important component of a company's financial performance (Paniagua et al., 2018).
There are two models of company development depending on the OW: W ‑ model (the Widely ‑ held model of corporation) and B ‑ model (the Blockholder model) (Bykova et al., 2017).
The decisive factors for the effectiveness of the W ‑ model are high liquidity and competition in the financial market (Быкова et al., 2017). Such structures are common in countries with a high degree of shareholder protection by law (USA, UK) (La Porta et al., 1999).
The B ‑ model assumes that there are major owners who control the company, form a board of directors and appoint management (Быкова et al., 2017). Such a structure is widespread in countries where it is quite expensive for minority shareholders to control managers (Continental Europe, Japan).
OC can serve as a tool to solve the agency problem and improve the performance of the company. This also reduces the problem of stowaways. Thus, concentrated ownership can improve performance, as monitoring costs are reduced and better management control is achieved due to the large incentives and resources of large shareholders (Jensen and Meckling, 1976).
OC is actively considered in the study of the determinants of financial results of firms. Tian and Zeitun (2007) showed that SS has more influence on accounting indicators, including return on assets, rather than market ones.
The next characteristic of the ownership structure is the types of owners. Researchers believe that different shareholders have different goals, incentives and expectations. Inconsistency of goals among shareholders in the framework of the conflict between principal and principal also leads to high agency costs, as well as in a conflict between managers and shareholders (Aluchna and Kaminski, 2017).
Insiders. Insider ownership includes shares of the board of directors and directly of the CEO and top managers, since the agent problem assumes that all shareholders have a common interest. There are conflicting results in the literature. Davies, et al. (2005) showed that insider ownership and the value of a firm have a mutual influence on each other. De Miguel et al. (2004) studied Spanish non-financial companies and found a non-linear dependence of the value of the firm on insider ownership.
In Italian companies insider ownership of shares positively affects the value of a company only in firms with non-concentrated ownership, which can be interpreted as the fact that large blocks of shares in the hands of managers allow them to use the company's resources for their own purposes (Aluchna and Kaminski, 2017).
Firms and Individual Investors. Qi et al. (2000) showed that the presence of firms and business groups as investors improves company performance (Alipour, 2013). While according to Tian and Zeitun (2007), individual investors do not have enough tools and capabilities to monitor company managers. Thus, when studying American companies, concluded that firms owned mainly by other companies show better results than companies where the majority are individual investors (Alipour, 2013).
State. State ownership is a block of shares in the hands of the authorities and has a more influential position (Aluchna and Kaminski, 2017). The state, as an owner, provides some benefits, for example, access to finance, increased liquidity, and reduced capital costs.The presence of the state is important for financing projects that are socially necessary, as well as in order to give an impetus to the development and economic growth of countries with undeveloped economic institutions. The state as the owner may have a negative effect on the company's performance due to the predominance of political a goal to the detriment of maximizing profits. (Pedersen and Thomsen, 2000). Researchers get various results by considering the impact of state participation on ownership of a company’s activities. Goldeng et al. (2008) for Norwegian firms showed that private companies have better performance than state-owned companies (Aluchna and Kaminski, 2017). At the same time, for 87 Malaysian non-financial companies demonstrated a positive relationship between the Tobin index and the state share (Taktak and Zouari, 2014).
It is logical that emerging markets are increasingly becoming the subject of academic research, including Russian companies that are of interest. Domestic market research can be conditionally divided into several groups: the effect of privatization, the influence of OC, the influence of OS in the conditions of economic crises, and the effect of the presence of various types of owners.
The first group of works (Earle, 1998; Kuznetsov, Muraviev, 2000) focuses on the effect of privatization in relation to the company's financial results, examining the links between state and non-state property and company performance. In general, the effect of privatization in the works is positive (Ivashkovskaya and Zinkevich, 2009).
The second part of the study considers the relationship between the concentration level and indicators and the possible non-linearity of these relationships. Dolgopyatova (2004) found a quadratic relationship between concentration and performance.
The third group of studies examine the period before the financial crisis and establish positive relationships between the degree of OC and the financial result, as well as between insider ownership and company performance (Ivashkovskaya and Zinkevich, 2009).
It is assumed that OS in developing economies, and, in particular, in Russia, can be an effective tool for resolving agent conflicts and reducing agent costs (Amarullah and Utama, 2017; Ivashkovskaya and Zinkevich, 2009), so you need to understand how to use this tool in order to prosper the company.
Thus, the study of OS is of interest from the point of view of an exhaustive set of its various characteristics as applied to domestic companies. Based on this, we can conclude that the question of the influence of OS characteristics of Russian companies on their activities and indicators remains open today.

Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out the study. This paper will analyze two aspects of the company's operations: operating efficiency and strategic performance. The first implies the effectiveness of the core business of the company and is measured by accounting indicators, such as, for example, return on assets. Strategic effectiveness shows how effectively the corporate strategy is executed.
The paper will use two indicators of firm performance: return on assets (ROA) and the Q-Tobin coefficient (TOBQ) as the two most popular indicators in empirical studies (Weiss, Hilger, 2011). To analyze the stability of the obtained estimates, models will be built where the binary variables ROA_D and TOBQ_D are planned to be used as dependent variables.To achieve the goal, it will be also necessary to build a regression model of panel data.
This practice allows us to trace the dependence of financial indicators on the factors influencing it. Panel data is the most used, as it provides a large number of observations, improving the efficiency of estimates. 

Results Anticipated
The research is expected to result in providing the answer to the specific question posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned.
Hypothesis testing will be based on data from public Russian companies, both quantitative and qualitative, for a period of 10 years.The results will be presented accurately and objectively. It is expected to confirm the hypothesis about the relationship between increasing the concentration of ownership and improving the performance of companies in terms of both operational and market efficiency. In other words, companies with large shareholders are more profitable than companies with a significant number of minority shareholders. Moreover, such companies will be evaluated by the market as more attractive for investment.In addition, it should be noted that the text will be integrated with tables and figures that will reflect the results in a more representative way. However, it should be mentioned that the implications presented in the study do not aspire to be incontestable and will be open to further academic debates.
 
Conclusion
Although corporate governance is one of the most problematic aspects of companies, attention to individual issues of its development is still insufficient. In this work, the analysis is based on panel data of Russian companies and their influence of the concentration of owners on the operating and market efficiency of the company, as measured by return on assets and Q-Tobin coefficient, respectively, is assumed. In this regard, the ownership structure can be considered one of the important factors affecting financial performance companies operating in emerging markets that need to be considered. 
An analysis of Russia as a typical representative of such markets allows to a certain extent to extend the results to other markets with similar characteristics. It is also worth talking about the need for a deeper study of the relationship between corporate governance mechanisms at the firm level and the quality of corporate governance in the country as a whole in order to implement the most effective mechanisms. So, on the one hand, regulators may be more interested in maintaining an increase in ownership concentration than in developing mechanisms for protecting minority owners. On the other hand, ignoring the latter can serve as a negative signal for investors, which, in turn, will lead to a decrease in the investment attractiveness of the market as a whole.
According to the academic point of view, this work can be used by other researchers to analyze other samples of countries, companies and managers. From a practical point of view, the results of the study can help to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the CEO's communication with users of social networks.