Introduction
Studying of consumer behavior is important because it allows creating different marketing strategies for firms that will enhance purchase intention and customers loyalty. Not only such theories concerned about profit but also allow improving consumer’s welfare.
Creating models that comply with reality is not an easy task. Through decades, economists suggest new more complex model based on recent theories. Expectations might be useful for this task. Expectations could be defined as a forecast about some measures. According to classical models, these forecasts will be always precise because of the strict assumptions that theory build on. However, it is not true for reality. People usual don’t have all information about goods and services, they also can’t process all the information and they aren’t strictly rational.
These facts make consumer expectations one of the key factors that reflects dynamic patterns in consumer behavior and that is a great step forward. It allows seeing how consumer behavior differ through the time and reveals factors that change it. There are many developed theories in macroeconomics that help government to create effective economic programs. However, this research will be concerned about microeconomics and will analyze customer expectations about goods or services. 
Conducting this research requires solving two issues: find a measure for consumer expectations and identify what goods or services could be analyzed.  The motion pictures market will be investigated, specifically dynamics of films’ box offices during weekends to discover influence of consumer expectations. This approach is appropriate because distributers make great costly marketing campaigns in order to influence on customer’s intention to watch the film in future. It is important to know that people usually watch film in cinema once. This fact may lead to some interesting results specific to this market. On the other side, it might be impossible to extend obtained conclusions to other markets. 
Taking everything into consideration current research is focused on revealing the relationship between film’s box office and customer expectations. In order to do so, information must be gathered about the film before its premiere that was available to customers and film’s characteristics. Dealing with the following will help to achieve the research’s goal: 
1. Identify disconfirmations effects in ongoing weekends and find out whether they greatly affect the overall film’s box office. 
2. Divide films in groups if it possible.
3. Discover criteria of efficient marketing campaign.

Theoretical background
The need to extend existing classical economic models was underlined by many scholars because of their inability to reflect real behavior. Some advanced concepts suggested to switch from classical principle of maximizing profit to models of satisficing behavior. That means that firm seek to achieve some aspiration level like holding a certain share of the market Simon (1950, 263). Later more theories were created based on these ideas like job satisfaction, satisfaction of giving transaction or encountered service. 
First articles about transaction specific satisfaction were trying to settle the relationship between such factors as expectations, disconfirmation, performance and satisfaction. The idea is that the greater satisfaction, the higher will be customer purchase intention and loyalty. In this context, Olshavsky R. W. et al. (1972, 20) showed that if expectations are high, therefore customers will better evaluate performance than it is. In this case, satisfaction will also be higher. However, the author failed to identify any disconfirmation effects due to inability to measure them directly in questionnaires. Later Oliver (1980, 465) manage to find these effects in his study of flu vaccination. The disconfirmation effect was significant and positively affected satisfaction because the performance actually happened to be better than expected. In contrast, expectations have negative insignificant effect on satisfaction. That might be possible that expectations have been already included in disconfirmation equation and indirectly influence satisfaction.  This model became a core concept in literature for a long time.  Churchill Jr G. A. and Surprenant C. (1982, 498) got similar results as previous author in their experiment of buying two goods: chrysanthemum and video player. Moreover, they found that for durable goods expectations matter as theory suggested and for nondurable goods, only performance was important. There were familiar ideas in literature dedicated to studying service.  Nevertheless, the estimation method SEM used in these papers lack widely accepted goodness-of-fit statistics and the coefficient of variables might be not effective. 
Boulding W. et al. (1993, 20) studied consumer behavior in situation of getting institutional program and simulated visiting of hotels. They suggested that there were actually two types of expectations: will-expectations and should-expectations. It was found that will-expectations are actually positively affect perception of service and should-expectation vice versa. Besides, they analyzed behavior in two periods and came to the idea that should-expectations would have raised if the prided service was greater than will-expectations. Manipulating both type of expectations would help to improve service in firms. Spreng R. A. et al. (1996, 25) also had two types of expectations in their model and both factors were significant. Moreover, they suggested using two types of satisfaction: attribute satisfaction and information satisfaction. The last proved to be significant and affected overall satisfaction. The major critics of these works is that data from experiments was used, not the real data. Considering everything, there are plenty factors concerning expectations that must be included in the model.

Methodology
Overview
The empirical analysis of the research will be based on estimation of the regression where film’s characteristics are dependent variables and its box office during weekends is independent variable. Estimation a regression like that in the first weekend will allow analyzing what expectations were about the film. For the next weekends, it will allow to reveal disconfirmation effects if there are any.

Data collection and analysis
The information about film and box-office will be taken from website kinopoisk.ru. The film’s index of popularity in a premiere day among all films will be taken as a measure of expectations. There are other film’s characteristics such as budget, actor’s popularity, number of copies, score, country of production, genre and distributor. The data analysis suggest that there movies can be dived in two groups: films with big box-office that about 1000 copies and more and others. It is important to do because customers can show one behavior for blockbusters and other for less famous titles. Another problem should be stressed, for some films there might not available information such as budget. In order to overcome that issue the data must be gathered for a long period. Otherwise other alternative variables should be used.

Predicted outcomes
The index of popularity of the film aka expectations is expected to influence film’s box-office positively and significant in the first weekend. This could be explained by the fact that it is almost impossible to decide how good film will be until you see it. Therefore the grater marketing campaign will be, the greater audience is expected. For other weekends, the coefficient of this factor might change on negative because the information about the film will become available from reviews and word of mouth. The effects of disconfirmation will begin to affect consumer behavior. Consequently box-office is expected to be less for films that has high expectations. The comparison of films’ box-office with high expectations and films that happened to perform better than expected will allow to determine how great the marketing campaign must be. Should it create high expectations or otherwise. Films’ box-office are usually bigger in the first weekend; therefore one might suggest films with high expectations will perform better.

Limitations
The results of this research might be impossible to extend for other goods and services because motion picture market is specific. People usually see film once and do not know for sure will it be good before they see it. Another drawback is that there might be not enough data about budget and other variables hence results might be biased. Moreover, there might be not enough amount of blockbusters in sample, therefore it might be impossible to divide films in groups. The last but not the least disconfirmation effects might be impossible to track, because they are will be revealed only through estimation, there are no any variables in data that will reflect them.

