During the war Soviet society has changed, the government has made concessions, allowed the indulgence to nomenclature, that it has secured the supply of the country and the army. The post-war society is recently attracting increasing interest, and allows us to understand what socialism after the war became. An important element of the socialist system are the nomenclature workers, represented by the party, military and economic machine. 

The aim of this research is to reconstruct the image of Soviet nomenclature worker in the post-war literature (by Stalin Prize winner). To accomplish this goal should be performed the following tasks: to reconstruct the social structure of the Soviet society, show how the literature interacted with the masses, to reconstruct the image of the hero of the war and the home front.

This study focuses on how the authorities have constructed the image of the nomenclature worker, with the help of literature. On this basis the following issues arise. How often soviet people turned to the books? What kind of books people often read? How did authorities manage the work of writers?

The key term of the research is nomenclature. A prominent Soviet historian Mikhail Voslensky in his work «Nomenclature» gives the following definition. Nomenclature – is a list of executive positions, the replacement of which makes not the chief of the agency, but the higher agency (Voslensky, 1991, P.53). 

The development of nomenclature should be divided into three periods: 1) creating a professional organization of revolutionaries, 2) the coming of this organization to power in the October Revolution and the emergence of the two ruling higher layers  - Leninist, consisting of professional revolutionaries, and nomenclature which was under the Stalin, 3) the third stage was the elimination of Lenin's guard by Stalinist nomenclature.

The other key term is socialist realism. The socialist realism is the artistic method of literature and art which present the aesthetic expression of socialist concept of the world and human caused by the era of the struggle for the establishment and creation of a socialist society.

The post-war society is only relatively recently become to attract the attention of researchers. In turn, the nomenclature issues attracted attention in late 80-s, and was designed in the works of Michael Voslensky and Oleg Leibovich.The most significant work of Mikhail Voslensy is «Nomenclature». Voslensky was himself nomenclature worker, later, after escaping to the West, he has described that we have going on in the Central Committee and other authorities. The main thesis of the author is as follows: revolution has created in the framework of the party, monopoly privileged stratum of Soviet society. During the further process, which consisted of a number of phases, the layer has strengthened and legitimized his position. He had not only fenced itself from society, from the people, and from all over the world; even within him was erected a hierarchy of ranks and social barriers. 

During the war nomenclature only strengthened its position. In order to secure the supply of the country and the army with food and weapons, the government has given to nomenclature more authority. Some works of Leibovich are devoted exactly to this problem. Among these works we should mention: «Social tensions in the late Stalin era. The Soviet state and society in the late Stalinism. 1945 - 1953 years», «The anti-Semitic sentiment in the Soviet rear», «In the city of M». 

Among the works written by Leibovich it should be noted another one, "Without drafts. Prokopevich Ivan Sharapov and his correspondents". At the heart of the work are 52 letters from the correspondence of Ivan Prokofyevich Sharapova with Soviet writers and editors of literary magazines. Communication between Sharapov and literati shows the process of destruction of the social barriers of the Stalin era. Destalinization thus appears as a reconstruction of social practices forming communities of social groups based on individualized interest. That kind of things that in the Stalin era was called the "factionalism", fills a vacuum of social communications, when overbearing control is weakened.

Despite the fact that the post-war period, only recently began to attract the attention of researchers, to date, there are a number of works devoted to the post-war society. Among them we should first mention the monograph of Elena Zubkova «Postwar Soviet Society: politics and daily life 1945-1953». The monograph is devoted to the study of Soviet society in a crisis situation of transition from war to peace, its mobilization capacity, the mechanism of interaction between society and the authorities. A study is based on a large complex of archival sources, and focuses on the public mood, reflecting the attitude of society as a whole and its individual groups to the policy of the authorities. The monograph presents the mechanism of functioning of public opinion - not formally replicable opinion, but that which is composed of a bizarre intertwining of formal paradigms and all sorts of rumors and speculation.

To proceed directly to the research part of the work, it is necessary not only to reconstruct the Soviet society of the postwar period, but also to reflect the economic situation in the country. One of the main problems of the Soviet Union after the war there was a famine of 1946-1947. The Monograph of V.Zima "Famine in the USSR 1946 - 1947" is devoted to the urgent and poorly understood topic. The book is based on the reach of early explorers material: secret documents from the funds of the party and the state archives of the USSR, letters, memories of eyewitnesses. On concrete examples is shown the negative impact of war, drought, procurement and tax campaigns on the difficult financial situation of the population. 

The book of British historian Donald Filtzer "Soviet workers and late Stalinism" from the series of books  "History of Stalinism" presents also a particular interest. On the basis of previously unavailable archival sources the author describes the tragic hardships faced by the Soviet workers and their families after the war: the state of housing and communal services and health care in those years, the special problems encountered by young workers, working conditions in the industry and enormous pressure exerted by the ruling regime, not only on the population, but also on those who is commitment and solidarity with the key institutions of the Stalinist political system.

Special attention should be paid to the diaries of Soviet citizens. In this study are used diaries of worker of Perm plant of aircraft engines Dmitriev, written between the 1946 and 1955, and the Schoolgirl's Diary 40-s. In his diary the author lists a number of books which he read, thereby he is trying to show its literacy. Thus it can be concluded that the literature was an important tool for government influence on citizens' outlook. Reading on the background of the hardships of daily life was an appeal to a more pleasant and comfortable reality. For teenagers books were romantic appeal to another reality. For adults, it was exemplary reality. Based on the records of the girl can be concluded that the books were perceived not just as another reality, but as a complement of reality. The girl reports that she have seen by her eyes, what is described in the book.
Methods

The research is based on methodological concept of elite theory, presented in the work of Yugoslavian politician Milovan Djilas. The focus of the study is on the nomenclature worker, which presents the elite of Soviet society, this fact explains the choice of methodology. The basic provisions of the concept of elitism are: 1) only one elite acts in a socialist society; 2) elites control the masses through various means of communication; 3) within elite there is its hierarchical system. 

In the work "The New Class: An Analysis of the Communist System" Djilas says that under communism the desire for power and to politics as a profession, is characteristic of all those who want to lead a parasitic life at the expense of other labor. Before the October Revolution, to be a member of the Communist Party meant to be ready for more sacrifices. When the party has become stronger, to  be a member meant to belong to the privileged class. And the core of the party were the all-powerful exploiters.

In the twenties in leadership positions in the country were former revolutionaries, those who fought for the ideas of communism. By the fifties, the old communists were either destroyed or has long out of business. Their place was taken by new employees who lead parasitic life. For the authorities it was necessary with the help of the literature to form an image of what they should have been.
Results Anticipated

The main expected result of the study is the hypothesis that the image of the hero of the war and the home front was the basis of the image of nomenclature worker.

After the war, the country faced with a hard economic situation. Towns and villages lay in ruins, people do not have enough food and household goods. Another was the situation among the nomenclature. During the war nomenclature only strengthened its position. They had access to more nutritious food rations, to coupons for clothes, shoes and household goods. Many nomenclature workers  also had a private car, apartment and even a separate cottage. Authorities knew about the situation, and in the late 40-ies started cleansing the ranks of the nomenclature. However, authorities had to create a perfect sample of functionary. Thus, having all the levers of propaganda, part of which was literature, government gave the green light to soviet writers.