Studying this problem can allow examine the Soviet women in the soviet press. It will help to build a social pattern of a woman than influences behavior of contemporary women. Another aspect of my work which makes the concept of propaganda stand out among other historical matters is that propaganda had a huge impact on soviet people.

This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern history studies have special appreciation for studies of the processes that affect today’s history as they reflect another dimension of politics that is method to influence people’s behavior. The problem propaganda and ideology has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach (concept) that could put all the diverse accounts of propaganda and ideology influents into the context of women's press, highlighting the image of the ideal Soviet woman. It is hypothesized that the analysis of the archive newspapers and magazines of the 1980-s will reveal the positive traits of the woman in the Soviet Union and will show the differences from these positive features the ones of 1960 and 1970.
Problem Statement. The purpose of the study is to characterize the image of an ideal woman in the representation of the Soviet press of the 60-80s.

In connection with the goal, the following research tasks were identified:
1. Describe the image of an ideal woman from the point of view of Soviet ideology for every decade;
2. To study the professional characteristics of the Soviet woman, based on the ideal image for the 60-80s;
3. Describe the appearance of the ideal woman in the representation of Soviet society in the 60-80s;
4. Describe the family portrait of the ideal woman in the representation of Soviet society in the 60-80s;
5. Highlight the description of the negative traits of Soviet women in the sources of the Soviet press of the 60-80s;
6. To highlight the similarities and differences in professional features, in a family portrait, in appearance for the 60-80s.

Delimitation of the study.  Soviet ideology was the propaganda of the masses of the population through print or oral media. This ideology has helped manage people while maintaining a reputation as a “state of the future." In the Soviet Union, such magazines were the “Krestyanka” and “Rabotnisa” magazines, symbolically duplicating the famous pair “rabochiy i kolkhoznitsa” - symbols of success and righteousness in the Soviet sense of the word. To influence the formation of women, the press uses language and myth (social myth), because it is they that contain information about the right and wrong, about the moral epic. 

In this work, we examine not only the external standards of the ideal image of a Soviet woman, but also her moral qualities.

The topic is relevant, firstly, in connection with its little knowledge, and secondly, the prevailing image and to this day has an impact on the sociocultural reality of modern Russia. In the 60-80s, a socially approved model of female behavior was formed. It was introduced into practice in various ways. 

The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature. It includes works devoted to the image, behavior and place of the Soviet woman. The works  can be divided into source-oriented and problem-based studies. They will be reviewed consistently. The most important for the research is the article by a famous Russian scientist, Yu. V. Gradskova. In the article “The Woman and the Political System of the Soviet State,” the author discusses whether there was equality between a man and a woman politically, what role women played, how they learned political literacy. Gradskova identifies the reason why equality between women and men was difficult to achieve. Her argument is that a woman has motherhood. In this regard, man is more suitable for building socialism. The main achievement of the Soviet state was that the woman gained a minimal understanding of the political system. This was done only to ensure that all sectors of society supported the party. As a result, the woman did not receive real power, and equality between men and women was not achieved.
Another important study for my work was an article by two scholars "Labor and Life of a Soviet Woman." Gruzdeva and Chertikhina in their work indicate the reason why women more slowly climbed the career ladder. Again, motherhood becomes became such a cause.  The authors in this article indicate that household duties women had, and reveal whether there was a division of labor at home between husband and wife. As a result, the woman had to work to help her husband feed the family, as well as fully care for the family. Household duties (cooking, tidying, chatting and caring for children) were completely feminine. Thus, the woman worked out the second shift, but already at home. Subsequently, the state began to help women. Because of such difficulties, kindergartens, camps, and canteens were opened. All these amenities allowed the woman to devote more time to work and development. 

Another author, N. L. Pushkareva, in his article “The Gender System of Soviet Russia and the Fates of Russians” writes about how the Soviet state changed gender policy. How, through propaganda and legal processes, has changed the social and gender behavior of people. Formed new gender roles, new interpretations of femininity and masculinity, new actors involved in the “production of gender” formed.
As for major research, we again turn to Yu.V. Gradskova. One of the most comprehensive surveys so far has been the work by Gdadskova "Ordinary Soviet woman". In this large study, the author writes about how people understand such phrases: “she lived her life as a typical Soviet woman”, “she reasoned like an ordinary Soviet woman”, and “she is a simple, Soviet woman”. This study is important to me because it directly affects the purpose of my work - to highlight the characteristics of a woman. Gradskova also sets out to highlight the features of the Soviet woman, according to whom she was considered ideal. Also, the author sets out to identify the difference in "ideal" traits by priority in different decades.

The birth of a new Soviet woman, the construction of a new woman depended on ideology. The description of the ideal woman is as follows: faithful, firm, responsive, courageous, hardworking, chaste, AND smart. As if ideology did not spell equality between a man and a woman, but women still remained subordinate ( Barbara Evans Clements « THE BIRTH OF THE NEW SOVIET WOMAN»).

An important aspect in the life of a Soviet woman is the family, its construction and relationship with men. Therefore it is important to understand the attitudes of men and women to sex and gender education. It is worth noting that sociological and demonographic factors influence gender education. ( Lynne Attwood “ The new soviet man and woman. Sex-Role socialization in USSR”). 

In order to understand the image of a woman, it is necessary to understand the context of that era. To do this, we turn to the economic theory of what economic events occurred in the country. The Soviet Union dictated to its citizens how to behave, instilled in them certain patterns of behavior to solve more global problems. The country was undergoing liberalization and cultural change, which means that people have changed. ( « Soviet society in the era of late socialism, 1964 - 1985» Neringa Klumbytė and Gulnaz Sharafutdinova.)

Since the work uses magazines sources, the primary method is interpretation. As opposed to comparison, it is aimed at “understanding” rather than explanation of the source”. However, the process of interpretation is a procedure that needs to be based on a consistent methodology. For this study, Bart methodology became a guideline. This methodology helps identify characters from the language of society which corresponds to the main purpose of the research. Bart methodology initially emerged in XX century. The idea behind the new methodology was to reveal the relationship between language and power, language, on the one hand, is a key node for socialization, on the other hand, having its own structure, syntax, and grammar, it carries a certain powerful message. This method is developing, and this work is one of the first to explore its possibilities in regard of perfect image of a Soviet woman, where sources of periodicals are multiple. Bart methodology enables this research to foreground concern for periodicals texts written by the soviet government as documents reflecting ideology. In interpreting the ideal image of the soviet woman, a pivotal element should understand of the ideological orientation and goals of the state. An analysis of my sources will be able to characterize the ideal woman whose image was broadcast through national periodicals. Those, using Bart’s methodology, I will fin reconstruct the very image from the text. The myth (image) is extremely preoccupied with hiding its own ideology, that is, it seeks to make it perceived as something natural, taken for granted.

Speaking about future research results, we must achieve the following results. Firstly, to reveal the exact signs and traits of a Soviet woman from the press for every decade. Describe an ideal family portrait (which woman should be a wife, mother, sister, etc.), describe a professional image (what qualities an ideal woman possessed - hard work, responsibility, purposefulness, etc.), describe what an external image a woman had (identify how she cares for herself , what figure has, what clothes she wears, what hairstyles she makes, etc.).
 Secondly, to highlight the peculiarities of the ideological influence on a woman in building an ideal image through the press, how this ideology changed and what this change depended on. 

Thirdly, I will have to compare all these ideal features of a woman (family, professional, external) for every decade. Identify what remains the same and what has changed.

My study brings new details to the situation of the women in the Soviet period 1960-1980. In my sources we found a description of the ideal women, what professional features she possesses, what appearance she has, what kind of family portrait she has. We also revealed how ideological propaganda was changing in the Soviet press, on the basis of which the image was built. Scientific articles by scientists have helped me understanding the general context of the status of women in Soviet society. How the responsibilities of women in relation to family, work, appearance changed, and most importantly, why these changes occurred. 

This study will be useful for those who are interesting in social groups in the USSR, feminism, the lifestyle of Soviet people (in particular women). In the future, for my work, it will be possible to pose a new research question – how does this ideal image affect modern women, how the images of the Soviet Union are reflected in women of the 21st century.