The vast majority of studies on national identification bear the traits of fixing only certain effects in certain situations. However, the case of culinary, winemaking and culinary canon in «national» studies is not common, although all countries have this culinary canon, one way or another, all citizens are proud of their cuisine and call it national. In matters of nation-building and national identity, Spain and the Spaniards are no exception, especially given the recent events with Catalonia. 

Due to the constant relevance of the Basque and Catalan issues in the field of political and national self-identification of Spain, in our work, we want to find out how the culinary canon and winemaking tradition were constructed and how they influenced national construction process.

The overall goal of this proposal is to identify national constructs and agents who modify or build up Spanish culinary and winemaking as the solidarity of the Spanish nation.

To accomplish the goal, the following objectives should be performed:
To study of the general theory of national construction (E. Hobsbaum, J. Borop, S. Jenkins and others) and the theory of using the pizza effect (a phenomenon when an element of culture, introduced from outside, influences cultural and national identification and self-identification inside the country or territory) to consolidate the nation.
To study the history of the appearance of national cookbooks and the history of winemaking in the XIX century.
To study the issue of national construction of the Spanish nation.
Identify the effect of pizza and/or the effect of the mirror in Spanish cooking and winemaking.
Put the history of the appearance of cookbooks and the history of Spanish winemaking in the context of the history of the national building process of the Spanish nation.

Creating an array of agents and facts in chronological order which is connected with general national constructing discourse.

There are several empirical restrictions to be imposed on this research. The first limitation is that the study has to cover only the nineteenth-century period in the history of Spain. The other one is that sometimes we cannot identify the «particular point» of using culinary tradition as a nation constructing tool, as its impact can only be tracked as a long-term process. That is why we are trying to grasp how the culinary and winemaking can affect the national self-identification but not when and where. Despite the territorial framework of the research, we need to notice that we can pick some French cookbooks to analyse as the French culinary tradition has influenced and even confronted the Spanish one (El Doctor Thebüssem y Un Cocinero de S. M., 1888). 

The issue raised in this research can be the starting point for those who wish to research some extraordinary or even extravagant ways to affect national identity. The results of the study will be worthwhile for historians’ community to realize the specifics of national identity formation by adding to the pool of common tools the culinary tradition and winemaking canon.

The present literature review will be developed through a systematic way of studying already published works on national construction and some cookbooks which show the change of Spanish culinary tradition.

As the main theoretical base of our research, we took the «The Invention of Tradition» by Eric Hobsbawm and Terence Ranger. The ways to form or impact national identity, which are based on converting already existing tradition or even inventing a new one, are described in this work. 

Eric Hobsbawm states that many traditions that are considered ancient often may have almost no past and might be «invented».
The term «invented tradition» is used in a broad but inaccurate sense. It includes both types of traditions: «invented», created and formally established, and those which came to society in ways which are extremely difficult to track, but despite this, established over several years. Invented tradition is understood as a set of practices which are regulated openly or closed by accepted rules, and a set of rituals or symbolisms which are aimed at integrating certain values and behavioral norms. With the help of their repetition, such sets of practices automatically refer to their repetition in the past. Often, ethics practitioners try to develop a generally accepted understanding of the historical past of a nation or state.

To supply the methodological basis, we took the «Black ships, Blavatsky, and the Pizza effect: critical self-consciousness as a thematic foundation for courses in Buddhist studies» by Stephen Jenkins, which relates both: culinary and tradition inventing as well.
The key feature of this work is that the unique «pizza-effect» is described there. According to Stephen Jenkins "pizza effect" is the hermeneutic feedback leap.

Knowing that pizza has ancient roots in Italy, American pizza (which we often eat), by and large, there is a product of American-Italian cuisine. However, when American tourists (pizza lovers) arrived in Italy, they were trying to find the very original Italian pizza. Rejoiced at their discovery of «authentic» Italian pizza, Americans returned to the US and began to open a network of pizzerias with «authentic» brick ovens. therefore, Americans met with their reflection in a different culture, and, «in principle, were satisfied».
As auxiliary work, we picked the «Zen and the Art of Inverting Orientalism: Religious Studies and Genealogical Networks» by Jorn Borup, where similar phenomena and conception as in «The Invention of Tradition» are described in the field of the oriental culture and religious studies. The «mirror-effect» which refer us to «pizza-effect» is also depicted there.

The latter described phenomenon with Americans and «authentic» pizza is described by Jorn Borop as the «reflected pizza effect» or «mirror effect». Such an incident when cultural representatives who have changed another culture meet with their modification in its native cultural environment and again modify it already in their cultural environment.

These works suit us perfectly because, two out of the five effects (the pizza effect and the mirror effect) throughout the «invention of the tradition» conception which E. Hobsbaum, J. Borup and S. Jenkins describe, relate to cooking. Unlike E. Hobsbaum, who created universals based on specific «effects», we try to consider such «effects» in the context of one national tradition.

Despite the temporal framework of our research, to perform a high-quality study we need to be competent and to understand the evolution of Spanish cuisine and Spanish cooking tradition in general. We used some works, which describe the image of Spanish cuisine or evolve-stages of culinary tradition.

One of the first authors, who wrote about Spanish cuisine was Ruperto Nola. According to Matthew J. Wild, Ruperto Nola is responsible for creating the very first «image of the taste» of Spanish cuisine and its distribution in the Mediterranean in the sixteenth century. This image, characterized by the use of olive oil and garlic, over time, has become one of the most recognizable images of European cuisines. Moreover, such an image then will be mentioned in Maggie’s Black work as a comparison to medieval English cuisine image. But, despite this, Spanish cuisine remained on the periphery of European cuisines, due to the fact that it was «not enough European» or «too eastern». 
But Nola’s work was like a drop in the sea, the real cookbooks and culinary studies amount topped off in the nineteenth-century, as the Spanish culture began to confront or even resist the French one. The nationalization of Spanish cuisine, according to Mariano Pardo de Figueroa, began there. Dr. Thebussem (Mariano Pardo de Figueroa’s pen name) tries to find a way to transform Spanish cuisine on a base of the French one and to vividly present it abroad.

Lara Anderson tries to reveal, why Dr. Thebussem’s contemporaries found his work successful. Indeed, both the great fame of French cuisine and the prestige of France as a «culinary engine» meant that the very centralistic nature of French culinary nationalization was seen as a guide for the nationalization process in Spain. Thus, the inherent vision of Spanish cuisine in the texts of Dr. Tebusem was taken as a sign that his project does not represent culinary nationalization in the pure sense of the word. However, from the second half of the 19th century, more and more Spaniards realized the importance of gaining control over the image of their country, which was introduced into the cultural world community by foreigners. It is noteworthy that at the same time when Spain was trying to achieve a certain degree of autonomy regarding the cultural and political image, Dr. Teboussem began to write about the need to defend culinary autonomy in the face of the culinary hegemony of France over Spain.

The beginning of the twentieth-century brings the «La cocina moderna» by de Burgos C., which describes modern Spanish cuisine and its tendencies. 

During the Civil War (1936-1939) two special cookbooks were published. The first one («Menús de guerra») was created by the Administration of Catalonia. The essence of the book was simple - it told how and what dishes can be prepared in conditions of limited gastronomic resources and how in such conditions to maintain a full-fledged diet for civilians. The second one - «Cocina de recursos: Deseo mi cocina» by Ignacio Dominic was created for guiding people on how to cook their traditional meals and dishes in conditions of limited gastronomic resources. These two works are a great example of such a «national» situation we are researching. One actor suggests to survive and bring traditions through the hard times, while the other offers to survive by crashing down cooking tradition.

Later, in 1953, according to Matthew J. Wild, Anna Maria Herrera in her «Cocina regional Espanola» states crucial thing in national cuisine discourse. Holding Herrera’s opinion, there is a national cuisine that dates back to antiquity and consists of various ways to season, cook, preserve and sweeten natural products from various regions of Spain. Herrera unequivocally states that national cuisine is one that is at the same time historical and formed by separate regions, and not by a traditional centralized downward formation. 
For gaining intel about winemaking tradition in Spain we applied to an article by J. R. Palmero where the impact of winemaking tradition on Spanish cuisine and culture is researched.

Aside from these studies, we took two big works which explore the Spanish national cuisine history: «Cooking up the Nation: Spanish Culinary Texts and Culinary Nationalization in the Late Nineteenth and Early Twentieth Century» by Lara Anderson and «Eating Spain: National Cuisine Since 1900» by Matthew J. Wild. To complete culinary discourse, we applied to R. W. Wrangham's paper, where he finds out how cooking influenced human history and culture. Moreover, to connect the discourse of Spanish national cuisine with general Spanish historical discourse, we used works by J. Lynch, G. Darby, Esdaile J. Charles and J.H. Elliott, which gave us global Spanish history review.

This part of the proposal explains the methods to be used in carrying out the research. The main methods of performing the historical research we used are the analysis of literature and historical sources, content-analysis and discourse analysis.

Firstly, we searched for all the possible literature and sources, connected with Spanish national cuisine and winemaking. Afterward, we created a chronological array of sources, which were the most complete for our research. 

Secondly, by matching the materials with the general national construction process we can track and researched agents and facts influenced the process of building up national cuisine.

The final part of the proposal will report on the future results of this study which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned before. This part will be organized in terms of the specific research question posed in the Introduction. All results will be reported accurately and objectively.

We suppose, that the overall goal will be achieved by accomplishing the objectives we set before. We assume that the results of our research will carry out severe identified actors and phenomes which influenced the creating of Spanish national cuisine and winemaking, and the Spanish national self-identification consequently. The final part of the research will take part by creating an array of agents and facts in chronological order which is connected with general national constructing discourse.

Thus, it can be revealed that the cuisine and winemaking of Spain is indeed a solidarity beginning for national construction and that there are many constructs that can be traced in the historical context at each stage of the national construction of Spain.
In the future, we would like to continue research in the field of constructing national identity and highlighting other «effects» and tools, and finally prove that the «national cuisine» is a vital tool to construct the nation using examples of different countries.