Jewish community Perm plays an important role in the cultural and political life of the region. In the modern period we can see problem the problem of understanding the essence of the community. In 1990s years to the territory of the region came the Jewish community «Chabad Lubavitch», which is different from the orthodox  Judaism. Active group of citizens of the town opposed to the organization describing its activities as a sect. Furthermore themselves members of the community go to the two organizations and do not see religious differences.

The futility of all attempts to blur the Jewish community in Perm confirms that when returning in 1992 believing synagogue authorities had to deal with an active, initiative, having the necessary religious knowledge and skills, community, able to withstand the totality of negative externalities. The history of the Jewish community of Perm shows that the existence of the community activity of believers, their individual position and willingness to solve the problem appears as an adequate consolidating factor that can not be overcome by any organizational difficulties. The main task of research to determine what external and internal factors contributed to community activities communication in the 1990s - 2000s years. 
To solve this problem it is necessary to do next tasks:
1. Identify the main causes of the rapid institutionalization of the community after the anti-religious campaigns of the Soviet period.
2. Interview the heads and members of the Orthodox and Hasidic religious communities of the Perm region.
3. Analyze archival documents pertaining to this topic.
4. Highlight the main principles of conduct of members and community leaders in the context of the current situation in the city.
5. Designate the basic directions of the state policy on the issue of religious minorities in the territory of the Perm during the period from 1990s to 2000s years.

The significance of this study lies in the fact that religious minorities are an important factor in the reconstruction of the cultural and social history of the Permian. Introduction of new sources to the scientific circulation gives the following researchers opportunities for study. This problem is put first in the current study. This formulation of the problem is put for the first time in this study what gave the novelty for the research. 
Literature Review
     
Literature that is used in this paper refers to the study of religious life on Post-Soviet area and to the methodological directions. 
     
The monograph of  Konacheva S.A  «Religious situation in post-Soviet Russia: features of the process of secularization. Transformation of identity structures in modern Russia » provides an overview of the religious situation in the post-Soviet space. It is used in this study for understand the context in which developed  Jewish community of  Perm. A comparison of the processes, taking place in other areas, makes it possible to identify the factors and characteristics of the community of Perm on the background of the all-Russian. 
     
Speaking about period from 1990s -2000s years,  she staded: « In the second half of the XX century. there is a gradual process of conversion of historical religious tradition «Early modern and modern type of religion». In different societies, this process takes place in a timely mannershaped, often themselves religious traditions conversion is very painful perceived as retreat before the onslaught of a godless world, as a crisis in need overcome. In an ideal situation, historical religion, first of all she should so change system of religious symbols and religious practices. 
     
Chapter 6 of the collective monograph «Religion and religiosityin the Vladimir region» about the Melenkovsky County Vladimir province: confessional policy of the state at the end of XVIII - XIX centuries, written by Fedotova M. A. is taken as a good example of the study of religion in the context of the political situation.  Analysis techniques allow us to apply them to the territory of the Perm and make the comparison. And also she paid attention on the relevance of the issue, saying that: « Since the beginning of the new, post-Soviet period, increasing public interest to  religious history». 
     
As a methodological basis for analysis interviews was taken dissertation work of Ipatova L.P. Conversion theory helped us to identification data obtained from an interview in religious system of conversion. The peculiarity of religious conversion in the historical situation of contemporary Russia is that even in seeking converts churching behavior for a long time under the determining influence of before religious experience. 
     
Another methodological article belongs to Smirnov M. U. « Is it possible to abandon the concept of religion in the study of religion? ». The main idea of his work is to remove the concept of religion from a research tool when considering religions. Of course, this does not mean the negation of the state religion.  It is important for the study of the Perm Jews because some of them carry out religious practices but do not identify their action as a religious activity.
     
The article of  Zelenina G. A «Portrait on the Wall and Sprat on the Bread: Moscow Jews between the Two «Sects»» let us to ñompare the situation of the Jewish community in Moscow with Perm. The article examines Jewish religious spectrum in Moscow, which in the main can be extrapolated to all of Russia. Special attention is given to the two extremes of the spectrum — ultraorthodox Chabad Lubavitch and Reform, or Progressive, movements. Based on published sources as well as interviews with people from various groups of Moscow Jewry, the research analyzes key strategies of community building and selfrepresentation of Chabad and Progressive Judaism, on the one hand, and the reception of these strategies and related practices, on the other. In our study we will follow its methodology to compare the obtained data.
Methods
          
The methodological basis of the work is the approach of Lappo-Danilevsky AS developed in his work "The methodology of history." And method is systematic interpretation of the sources. In this paper, a systematic method used as one of the types of interpretation typifies the source. Systematic interpretation of historical sources is to understand it in the context of this relationship to culture. Using this technique, the historian discovers not only the general features of the source, but also those specific to the area of culture, nationality, society layer. 
     
It is also used the individualizing method of interpretation in the analysis reports Commissioners for Religious Affairs. For historical criticism of the source Lappo-Danilevsky offers a method of establishing a scientific and historical value of the source of the fact testimony. It was used in the analysis of statistical data on the number of believers, the number of people who attended the synagogue, and the number of committed religious rites.
     
Structured interview method was chosen in this paper for work with respondents. The concrete empirical study carried out in the paradigm of qualitative sociology. An integrated approach to the consideration of the phenomenon of religious conversion involves the installation on the study of social contexts and experience of specific people. As the most appropriate to achieve these objectives in the study used the biographical method. Collecting field data was carried out using the method of narrative biographical interviews.
     Checking the validity of the types of religious conversion was carried out in the process of data triangulation and triangulation of research (comparative analysis of copyright types with the types of conversion and other religious scholars). 
     
In all the course of the study were taken 15 interviews with members and community leaders. All of them were positioned or identify themselves as Jewish population of the Perm. As information sources, illuminating the cultural context were held archival documents and the method of observation.

The main expected result of this study is that as it was in the Soviet period, the community retains its activities and through individual practices. Rehabilitation and the institutionalization occurred rapidly due to active work of members of the community. The main conclusion is that in order to exist a religious community requires only the presence of cadres who capable of producing religious practices.
     
The second outcome  as for the situation with the existence of two religious Jewish communities of Perm and their lack of understanding of the difference in the dogmatic sense from the side of the faithful. The main hypothesis is that this happens because of the illiteracy believers themselves. In the most of cases it does not matter in what kind of a community they will go because they do not consider themselves as religious and primary identification is due to the fact that « I am a Jew». 
     
And the last result refer to interview method that has shown that there is a latent conflict between the orthodox community and hasidic community "Chabad Lubavitch". Orthodox community has positioned itself as an infringement of rights, when the hasidic community sponsored by America and has a lot of financial opportunities.
Conclusion
     
The futility of all attempts to blur the Jewish community in Perm confirms that when returning in 1992 believing synagogue authorities had to deal with an active, initiative, having the necessary religious knowledge and skills, community, able to withstand the totality of negative externalities.
     
The history of the Jewish community of Perm shows that the existence of the community activity of believers, their individual position and willingness to solve the problem appears as an adequate consolidating factor that can not be overcome by any organizational difficulties. Family tradition as a mechanism for intergenerational broadcast religious attitudes toward the world is the best preservative community beginning in terms of legislative and social destruction of religious organizations.
     
Arrival of Chabad Lubavitch community to the territory of Perm expanded cultural influence on the city space. It is possible that it was an additional incentive for action Orthodox community. Competitive conditions make it possible to do a religious Jewish life more visible.