Analysis and consideration of everyday life is always an important key for studying different historical periods. The study of everyday practices helps to delve into the essence of the phenomenon under consideration in more detail. The war period changed people's lives beyond recognition, especially children's lives. Almost all everyday practices have changed in a new way.  When the war ended, people's lives didn't change much. It was still hard to live: poverty, hunger, hard work, and fatherlessness.  It was also difficult for many children to adapt and get used to the way of life at that time. So they got out of it as best they could. Not everyone took the path of crime or somehow violated the rules, but such cases were quite common, so it will be interesting to consider. Based on this, the article will consider children's daily life: school environment, family life, and play everyday life. After the reconstruction of all everyday practices, the causes and forms of deviation from the behavior that is considered normal will be studied.

The main purpose of the study is to consider the problem of the ratio of norms and anomies, formal and informal in school everyday life. It will also be necessary to describe and reconstruct the deviant behavior of children in the war and post- war years in the Molotov region.

In conformity with the research purpose, the objectives are the following:
Reconstruct the evolution of children's everyday life in the war and post-war years,
Identify forms of child deviation on the example of the Molotov region,
Describe norms and anomies in school everyday life in the Molotov region.

The study will examine, describe and reconstruct children's daily life in the war and post-war period until 1948 - the initial period of post-war rehabilitation. The main aspect of everyday life that will be described is the school life of children. It will be necessary to consider deviant behavior in the school environment, what was normal and what was not, as part of the study of everyday life.

This study will attempt to reconstruct the evolution of children's daily lives from the period of the great Patriotic war to 1948. Everyday life of children is a fairly frequent subject of research. I will consider not only the daily life of children in different aspects in the Molotov district, but especially in the school environment. In the work it will be important to identify and describe forms of deviant behavior and the various deviations. Despite the fact that the study of everyday life in both adults and children is a fairly common topic for research, the study of the school environment will always be relevant. Since the Soviet government completely controlled all spheres of life, it kept school life under control no less, so children had to be brought up in the spirit of the ideology of the time. Especially relevant in the study is that in addition to describing everyday life, the forms of deviation from normal behavior will be studied.

The historiography on the stated problem is quite extensive, there is a necessary amount of Russian-language literature on children's military and post-war life. Even there is literature specifically on the Molotov district, which specifically concerns the topic of my diploma. The volume of English-language literature is scarce. Most of the articles I found are from the 30s, not the period in question, but may be interesting to consider the daily lives of children in the pre-war period. Important works are two of the thesis written about Soviet childhood in Molotov district. The Authors, Romashova M. V. and V. M. Korenyuk, who also wrote several articles concerning various aspects of children's daily life: school, games, orphanages, and family. In addition to articles, the study will use a book with memories of childhood during the war. Each memory describes the hard years experienced in the war, unbearable work, on a par with adults. People described a lot of terrible things that were probably morally difficult for them to remember. Children started working at an early age, helped their parents with household chores, worked in the field and at the factory. As they remembered, life was hard, but they coped with all the difficulties. Most articles write about the importance of school in education and children's lives in General. School is an important stage in the primary socialization of a child. Because of the war, many go to the front, increasing the number of household chores for both women and children. Many parents can't pay enough attention to their children. The role of teachers, schools and orphanages in children's lives is increasing. After the war, the situation began to change, but slowly. The state continued to pay great attention to school education. The number of schools and students has increased. Schools had difficulties with furniture, office supplies, and lighting. There were about 18-20% of underachievers. The issue of the lack of sufficient qualified personnel was also acute.
All the authors write that the school played an important role in the life of every child. The Soviet government saw school as a key element in educating the country's ideological citizen. All activities of schools and teachers were under the influence of the authorities, as the school had to protect the child from the influence of the street, which could raise a potential criminal. The key role of the school was to meet the political demands of the state and the authorities. Also, many authors who write about school everyday life, including in the Molotov region, note the deplorable situation of some schools. Protasova E. V., Korenyuk V. They write about the difficulties of Soviet schools in the Molotov region, the lack of textbooks, which affected the progress of students, the unsatisfactory state of schools and orphanages, and poor conditions for students and pupils.

Articles found on the topic are divided into those that describe either children's daily life, or school life, or children's homes and boarding schools. Despite seemingly different research topics, the essence remains similar. Both in children's homes and in schools, the conditions were equally unsatisfactory: poor heating, lack of teachers and staff, and so on. If we talk about a specific example from the article, then E. V. Protasova, for example, writes about the memories of participants in the events and about the archival data presented about conditions in orphanages. As in the archival documents I found, and in other articles, this study shows the unsatisfactory state of children's homes. The maintenance of the pupils in cold and unsanitary premises. Inadequate nutrition, frequent escapes, mass of head lice. In some cases, it got to the point that due to the lack of warm clothes, children could not go to school in especially cold times. Since absenteeism and unauthorized care were taken very seriously and appropriate penalties were applied, children could suffer due to circumstances beyond their control. If we talk about deviant behavior, this topic is covered in less detail in historiography. Authors write about deviations in the context of behavior that is considered normal. My research on deviant behavior will be based not only on articles, but also on archival documents that show specific examples of children and adolescents whose behavior is considered a deviation from the norm. This can include tardiness, poor behavior in class, failure to perform, absenteeism, unauthorized departures, homelessness and neglect.

The social phenomenology of Alfred Schutz was chosen as the research methodology. According to A. Schutz, from the moment of our birth, the world is "given to our experience and interpretation". He also says that " any interpretation of this world is based on a stock of previous experiences of it, experiences of our own and passed on to us by our parents and teachers, which in the form of "available knowledge" function as a reference scheme." The everyday world is a world in which there are certain objects that affect our feelings and consciousness.  And through the analysis of experiences, it is possible to understand exactly how these objects are able to influence us. Since "the world of everyday life is a scene and at the same time the object of our actions and interactions", it is important to understand how the world around us can change a person's actions, and how a person can change this world with their actions.

For O. Leibovich, who explains the concept of A. Schutz in his own way and translates it into a "more accessible language", everyday life – "this is a conscious, felt, understandable for contemporaries life world"; "this is the world of a person, shared by him with other people". He says that there is a certain space, and in this space contemporaries interact with each other. Together, they give it a certain meaning. Everyday life in this sense is not only a way of life or routine, it is necessarily "an area of values and ideas shared by people, norms that govern their behavior, life landmarks, signs and symbols, but also sets of things used in the process of production and consumption". Everyday life in this concept is "multidimensional", and it includes the human world as a whole, from the private to the public. Also FR. Leibovich says that everyday life is opposed to "the dark sphere of alienation-phenomena and things that have not received their name, and (or) rejected by the social community for political or cultural reasons."

The research is expected to result in providing the answers to some specific questions posed above in correspondence with the methodology mentioned. First, it is intended to reconstruct and describe children's everyday life of the war and post-war years in the Molotov region, using social phenomenology, which will be the main methodology of the study. It is also intended to identify forms of child deviation and describe the norms and anomies in the school environment.

Summing up all the issues discussed earlier, the presented research contributes to the study of norms and anomies in children's school everyday life in the war and post-war period. Based on the studied historiography and archival documents, social phenomenology is used to study everyday practices of children in the Molotov region. Another subject of research is the consideration of deviant behavior of children. In addition, our study identified forms of such behavior and examples from archival documents. Sources and literature show that some children's behaviors were taken more seriously during the study period than at present. This includes being late for lessons, absenteeism, and unauthorized departures. For vagrancy, mischief and homelessness, the police also detained children on the streets. The authorities took such manifestations of deviant behavior seriously because such teenagers could become potential criminals in the future, due to difficult living conditions.