Last decade the appellation to Ronald Reagan’s legacy becomes a kind of clich? in discourse of American conservatives. (Heclo, 2008, p. 555) This feature flourished during the pre-election period recent year. Many presidential candidates from the Republican Party have bonded their political views with the Reagan ones. (Paul, 2014; Perry, 2014; Sullivan, 2014) It is a quite interesting phenomenon, considering the fact that just after his departure Reagan did not seem to be a popular figure for general electorate and conservative establishment alike. More to say, Reagan’s policy was regularly criticized by president George H. W. Bush in the early 90s. (Bjerre-Poulsen, 2008, p. 212)

On the one hand, this project proposal is an attempt to shed light on this discrepancy. The main a priori statement of this research is that American conservatives constructed the legacy of Ronald Reagan during his post-presidency. (Longley, Mayer, & Schaller, 2005) This legacy embraces positive outcomes of Reagan presidency and excludes negative ones. However, the construction is always a continuous process. In this way, the main research question could be framed as follows: how American conservatives’ approaches to the memory of Ronald Reagan evolve throughout the post-Reagan era of American history? To answer it I intend to find out when the constructing of Reagan legacy began and work out a periodization of the development of American conservatives’ approaches to the memory of Reagan. 
     
On the other hand, conservative movement in the USA is a complex phenomenon, which consists of a number of internal fractions. There is no constant agreement on the Ronald Reagan legacy problem among conservatives. The latest pre-election statements of Republican candidates show that the Reagan legacy has become a hot issue. (Paul, 2014; Perry, 2014; Sullivan, 2014) The conservative movement in the USA is a complex phenomenon, which consists of a number of internal fractions. I guess that the American conservatives’ approaches to Ronald Reagan are a kind of litmus, which represents those fractions. In this way, the objective is to define different branches of conservatism within the each period.  

My contribution, if any, to the debate will consists largely in developing a new approach to the Ronald Reagan legacy as a “product” of American conservative movement, which can offer some valuable information about this movement. A wide range of contemporary studies is ultimately focusing on either evaluation Reagan’s legacy or demythologization it, clear it of ideological prejudices and make more ‘objective’. (See “Literary Review” below) There is no study, which would shed light on the genesis and evolution of Reagan legacy. In this way, my perspective is a quite innovative.
     
I will limit the investigation to analyzing the American right-wing magazines. This limitation excluded analysis of the large-scale corpus of historical documents such as politicians’ speeches, legislature acts etc. I guess that being publically orientated right-wing periodicals sharply represent the correspondence between conservatives’ approach to Reagan legacy and conservative agenda for example. The limitation will be set for this reason. At the same time, some core monographies by American conservative intellectuals dedicated to Ronald Reagan also will be analyzed.

Most attempts in this field of study have been made to evaluate the Ronald Reagan legacy and its role in the history of the USA. Another large number of researches, recognizing the constructive nature of existing Reagan legacy, aim to deconstruct it, clear it of ideological prejudices and make more ‘objective’. However, there is almost no studies in the field, which would attempt to find out a genesis of Reagan legacy and trace its development.  
     
The theoretical framework of my research is a theory of conservatism developed by Alexander Galkin and Pavel Rakhshmir. (Ãàëêèí, Ðàõøìèð, & Êîâàëü, 1987, pp. 161–175)  They defined three types of conservatism, which are traditionalism, liberal conservatism and right-wing extremism. This classification based on values as a main criterion. The Galkin-Rakhshmir’s theory is a theoretical background of my research, which gives a general vision of such complex phenomenon as American conservatism.
     
At the same time, Kyle Longley’s (Longley et al., 2005, pp. xii–xiv)  view of the American conservative mythology is applied. His core idea is an identification of two main approaches to the memory of R. Reagan. On the one hand, there are those who truly fight to maintain president’s legacy because of their personal adherence to the president. On the other hand, there are politicians who have, besides a personal devotion to Reagan, their own political agenda as a main driving force. There are also many cases, which meld these two extremal approaches.
     
While the punch line of Longley’s study is an attempt to understood the discrepancy between the ‘real’ Ronald Reagan and Ronald Reagan ‘made by conservatives’, George H. Nash (Nash, 2009) presents another perspective. He embraces an existing conservative Reagan ‘myth’ and, being within it, scrutinize the impact of Reagan and his legacy on American conservative movement.  Nash also give some answers why Reagan (not another president) is so popular among conservatives. Being scholar with conservative ideological convictions, Nash provide a perspective from the inside of American conservative movement. Although, he provide some reflections on content of Reagan legacy, he do not investigate its origins.  
     
The same one can state about Huge Heclo’s article. (Heclo, 2008) He provides much broader and, at the same time, more critical approach to Reagan legacy than Nash do. Heclo try to detect some bonds between Reagan legacy and its influence on several aspects of American life. However, his view do not embrace the evolution perspective.  Heclo’s approach is effective from the perspective of political sciences, but its lacks of historical approach. 
     
That not the case of Niels Bjerre-Poulsen. (Bjerre-Poulsen, 2008) He demonstrates the melt of highly valuable historical-genetic and institutional approaches to the subject. In other words, Bjerre-Poulsen focuses on the ways in which American conservatives tried to institutionalize the memory of Ronald Regan. His key idea could be stated as the conservatives’ effort to remember Reagan began in 1997.

Critical language analysis is a core method of the study. The landmark idea of this approach is a concept of discourse that considers usage of language as a form of social practice. (Òè÷åð, Ìåéåð, Âîäàê, & Âåòòåð, 2009, pp. 195–228) Discourse, formed by social reality and its structure, simultaneously reforms social and political reality through language.  Every text is also considered as a part (and some kind as a product) of a large historical and social context. This methodology helps to illuminate controversies and fractions of conservative movement in America and its internal shifts through analyzing the evolution of Reagan legacy discourse. 

This part of the proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. In general, the results anticipated are intended to provide support to the hypothesis. First, we intend to examine our assumption that a construction on Reagan legacy has taken place in American conservative discourse of post-Reagan era. This process has continuous character and that because we await to gain a periodization of reinvention of Reagan. 

The main predicted outcome of the research is a thesis that the construction of Reagan legacy among American conservatives began in 1997 as a response to an identity crisis, which began at the end of Reagan’s presidency and caused the major conservative loss at the 1996 presidential election. 

As far as we suppose, this period continued to 2001, when two core events in American history happened: the first in almost decade conservative presidential elections victory and, which more significant, the September 11 attacks. If in the first period of ‘Reagan legacy’ discourse there was an emphasis on idea of Reagan as integrator and ‘great communicator’, the second period characterized Reagan as great defender of US nation. I also expect to see the interior fractures of conservative movement during that second period. 