Late antiquity, during which the Neo-Platonists acted, is one of the most important periods in world history. This is a turning point in history when Christianity is replacing the old worldviews. From the beginning of the 20th century, the study of the history of the Late Antique Empire developed. Different aspects of cultural, artistic, social and political life were studied, it is especially important that they began to pay attention to the history of the Eastern Roman Empire. However, the history of philosophical thought is still of interest to the researcher. In this case, we are talking not only about the evolution of philosophical thought as such, but about the history of intellectual philosophical communities, such as Neo-Platonists and Christians were.

Problem Statemen: Late antiquity is a time when everyone sought to either become God himself or to approach him as much as possible.
	
Christianity was a variegated variety in the prenikeyan era: along with the emerging episcopal church, there were numerous Gnostic, Judeo-Christian, Marcionite movements. Already during this period, one can see a manifestation of the interest of Hellenic philosophers in Judaism and Christianity.
	
At the end of the 2nd century, Numenius the Apamean tried to connect the Christian beliefs and the teachings of Plato. The forerunner of Neo-Platonism, he was a Platonist and Neo-Pythagorean and believed that Plato derived his ideas in many respects from Brahmins, Jews, magicians and Egyptians. Numenius tried to coordinate the study of the Old and New Testaments with his teaching and used the writings of the prophets in his writings. His famous saying: “Who is Plato, if not Moses, who speaks Atti?”, draws a peculiar parallel in these teachings, which in the future can be traced to many prominent figures of the church. One of the first historians of the church, Eusebius of Caesarea, thanks to whom the majority of fragments of the philosopher’s works have come down to our time, cites the works of Numenius from Apamea later as evidence of the existence of the beginnings of Christianity among the Pythagoreans and Platonists.
	
If back in the 2nd century AD the philosopher, coming before the emergence of Neo-Platonism as an independent philosophical phenomenon, saw the connection between the ideas of Plato and Christians, and viewed Christianity by no means as an opposing structure, it should not be surprising that in the following centuries this connection can be traced in such a vast material.
	
In the III century, the school of Neo-Platonists faced Christianity, and this laid the foundation for a rather interesting history of the interaction of two intellectual communities, full of their own internal contradictions and problems.
Delimitations of the Study: In the course of the paper we analyze the images of Christians in the works of Neo-Platonists and the images of pagan philosophers in the works of Christians. The school of Neo-Platonists lasted from the third to the sixth century.
	
The philosophy of Neoplatonism had a direct impact on the formation of Christianity, therefore it is important to identify ways of interaction between Neo-Platonists and the early Christians throughout the entire existence of Neo-Platonism, which coincides with the strengthening of Christian positions in the empire and the world, that is, from the 3rd to the 6th centuries A.D.
Professional Significance: This study partially recreates the interaction of intellectual communities on the territory of the Roman Empire in the period of the 3rd-6th centuries A.D. Various ways of expressing relationships between communities have been identified.
Definitions of Key Term: The key terms of this study are: “intellectual community”, “Paganism”, “Neo-Platonism”, as well as “artistic polyphonism” by Mikhail Bakhtin. 
	
Intellectual community can be defined as a group of individuals who spend significant time engaging with each other to expand their knowledge and understanding of a particular subject and promoting their mutual intellectual growth and creativity through the open exchange of ideas.
	
Artistic polyphonism is “the multiplicity of centers - consciousnesses not brought to the same ideological denominator”.
	
Neo-Platonism is a strand of Platonic philosophy that emerged in the third century AD against the background of Hellenistic philosophy and religion. The term does not encapsulate a set of ideas as much as it encapsulates a chain of thinkers which began with Plotinus (c. 204/5 – 270 AD) and which stretches to the sixth century AD.
	
Paganism is the worship of or belief in multiple deities, which are usually assembled into a pantheon of gods and goddesses, along with their own religions and rituals. This term first used in the fourth century by early Christians for people in the Roman Empire who practiced polytheism.

Literature Review: The sources for the first chapter involve the work of Neo-Platonists, which touch on the relationship between Neo-Platonists and Christians (Plotinus “Against the Gnostics”, Porfyry “Against the Christians”, Julian “Against the Galileans”), epistolary sources (letters of Julian the Apostate, letters of Sinesius of Kiriena), biographical sources created by students of Neo-Platonists (“The Life of Plotinus” by Porfyry, “Proclus, or O Happiness” by Marin, “The Life of Isidore” by Damascus). For the study of the second chapter, historical Christian works were taken (“The Church History” by Eusebius Pamphilus, “The Church History” by Socrates Scholastic, “The Church History” by Theodore Cyrus, “The Church History” by Sozomen, “The Church History” by Evagrius Scholastic, “The reign of Justinian” by Agathius Mirinius and others); works directed against the Gentiles (“The Word against the Hellenes” by Athanasius of Alexandria, “History, against the Gentiles” by Pavel Orosius, “Against the Academics” by Augustine Aurelius, etc.). Works of historians of the 3rd-6th centuries were also used (“The Life of Philosophers and Sophists” by Eunapius, “The Roman History” by Ammianus Marcellinus, Suda).
	
Modern studies of Neo-Platonism in Russia are represented by the work of L. Lukomsky on the Jamblichus of Chalcis, the translations and works of Yuri Shichalin, translations and commentaries of the works of Porfyry, Julian the Apostate and Sinesius Kirensky by T. Sidash. His work of comparative analysis of Neo-Platonism and Cappadocian theology and work “The Philosophy of Porfyry Through the Prism of Ancient Cultures”, are of interest. Of interest also are the historiographical articles of M. Vedeshkin on the situation of paganism in the Eastern Roman Empire.
	
The studies of V. Ukolova of the first centuries of the Middle Ages and the life of Boethius make it possible to understand the consequences of the interaction of multidirectional societies in the empire. The D. Furman’s translation of letters of the emperor Julian, as well as their analysis, provide us with a picture of the philosopher’s understanding of the world, his attitude to his environment. R. Svetlov in his work analyzes Neo-Platonism and Alexandrian exegetics.

In the works of Svetlana Mesyats, studies of Hellenic schools are presented, as well as an analysis of the teachings of Jamblichus and Proclus, as well as translations of his writings.
	
An analysis of I. Melnikova helps to understand better the biographical work of Jamblichus, and the work of E. Abdullaev allows a better understanding of the historical context of the existence of the Neoplatonic community.
	
Studies by foreign authors cover a longer period of time. These authors are Eric Dodds, John Dillon, Festugière A.-J., J. Bidet and B.D. Larsen.
	
Athanassiadi addresses the topic of biographies in neoplatonic communities in her work “Persecution and response in late paganism”. Pierre Hadot in his book takes an important step in the study of Plotinus and the analysis of him as a person. Marc Edwards not only provides translations of the “Life of Plotinus” by Porfyry and “Life of Proclus” by Marin, but also gives a detailed analysis of the history of the philosophy of Neo-Platonism from Plotinus to Marin. The introduction gives an overview of the biographical tradition in Late Antiquity. It is impossible not to say about the contribution of Domenic O`Meara. In his works, he made an analysis of the life and philosophy of the Neo-Platonists. Also in his work “Patterns of Perfection in Damascius’ Life of Isidore”, he considers the scale of virtue presented in Vita Isidori, using it to summarize the assessment given by Damascius himself to other pagan philosopher Neo-Platonists.
	
In his work, Edward Watts considers Athens and Alexandria as educational centers, which also helps to understand the structure of the school and its features. A study of the theoretical aspect can be seen in Lloyd's “The Anatomy of Neo-Platonism”. You can also see biography reviews in the “Greek biography and late antiquity”.
	
In 1999, P. Athanassiadi attempted to reconstruct Damascius based on Photius, Suda, and other sources, in which Vita Isidori made up a significant part, and also described the situation in the philosophical schools of Athens and Alexandria. The book also contains three chapters, somewhat distant from the main work: devoted to the archaeological question (including the place of residence of Damascius), historical and prosopographic. In this case, however, it is not just about gathering together separate pieces of text, but also about compiling a bilingual publication: a complete translation of Vita Isidori into English is given, which runs in parallel with the Greek text. All this allows us to judge the work as a whole and simplifies its study. Unlike Zinten's work, this text is easier to use, since fragments are collected in sequential text. Athanassiadi also returns the name “Philosophical History” (used by Suda) to the text, as it contains much more information than a regular biographical panegyric to the teacher.
	
Today, there is an almost complete collected text of Vita Isidori based on the work of Asmus, as well as its translation into English, provided for better understanding. It consists of 159 fragments distributed over nine thematic sections.
	
In his article “Monotheism and Pagan Philosophy in Later Antiquity”, Michael Frede compares the main points of the not-so-polytheistic pagan religions of late Antiquity and monotheistic Christianity.
	
Thus, a study is required of how the Neoplatonic community appears in the works of Christian authors. Modern studies of Christianity mainly involve the study of the Christian philosophy of late antiquity as part of the history of Byzantine philosophy. For the first time, a monograph on this topic was written by Professor Vasily Tatakis in 1949. Byzantine Philosophy made a huge contribution to the study of the philosophy of the Eastern Roman Empire, including - pointed to it as a phenomenon. In his work, Tatakis summarized Byzantine philosophy as such and systematically analyzed the continuation of the development of ancient philosophy throughout the existence of Byzantium. Of the modern Russian authors dealing with this subject, it is worth noting the monograph by V. Lurie, “The History of Byzantine Philosophy” and “Introduction to Critical Hagiography”.
	
An interesting book for studying the philosophy of the Byzantine Empire is the book of Jan Zoz’ulak “Inquiries into Bisantine Philosophy”, in which the author analyzes the existing theories about the chronological framework of the existence of this philosophical direction, and also shows its basic principles.
	
For the study of specific sources, such as, for example, “Against the Gentiles” of Arnobius the Elder, the research of N. Drozdov and V. Tyulenev, containing a historical analysis of this treatise. A. Vdovichenko in his article “Eusebius of Caesarea against Hierocles” considers the early work of the father of the church.
Methods: The methodological basis of the thesis is the synthesis of several basic methods of historical research for a comprehensive study of the research object:
- interdisciplinary study of social history and the history of philosophy in the framework of the history of intellectual culture;
- study of the intellectual history of the last pagans;
- method of philosophical dialogue by M. Bakhtin: simultaneous combination and development within the framework of one society of independent consciousnesses 
Results Anticipate: As a result, the thesis is supposed to achieve all the goals and objectives stated in the begining. Consequently, based on the analysis of the neoplatonic sources it is possible to identify some ways of community interaction on the part of the intellectual community of Neo-Platonists and to reveal the images of Christian figures.
	
Initially, speaking of the founder of Neo-Platonism - Plotinus, we encounter the problem of a certain “unrecognizability” of Christians among other cults for him. Despite the presence of Christians among his visitors, he cannot clearly separate their teachings from the teachings of the Gnostics.
	
Porfiry’s polemic with Christians is sharper: his criticism is clearly directed against them, Porfiry is quite capable of identifying Christians among other sects and teachings. Christians for Porfiry are ignorant, low, blindly deceiving people who defame previous gods. Christian teaching is directed not at the intellectual layers of society, but at its lower classes, which also causes its indignation and indignation.
	
The characterization of the Christian faith by Julian the Apostate is simple - “insidious doctrine”, “fiction of people, maliciously invented”, “fable”. In the chronicle of Eunapius there is a bitter contrast between the “oppressed” pagan population, whose courage is expressed, for example, in the history of Anatoly, in open visits to temples and free public meetings, and wicked Christianity, worshiping the cult of dirt and bones, which does not even have enough education. Christians are shown as slanderers and envious people in a dominant position. In the 6th century, in Philosophical History, Damascus represents Christians in the form of ignorant barbarians who impede the development of philosophy, often simply killing it by closing pagan schools and prohibitions on teaching.
	
In the course of work on the diploma paper the attitude of the Christian community towards the Neo-Platonists will be clarified and the main features of their interaction will be revealed.