The relevance of the research lies in the following points. For history science XX century became the century, which changed the understanding of the direction of historical investigations: historians became interested in intellectual history, i.e. in the concepts of “creative thinking, innovative ideas of intellectuals, the categories of thought, myths, symbols, and languages in which people make sense of their lives” (Repina, 2003, P. 4) . For example, a new trend appeared, that is memory studies. Currently, in historical science many works are devoted to the study of people's perceptions of the past in different times, firstly, for enrichment of modern knowledge about the cultures of the past, secondly, discovery of new methods for the study of sources and, thirdly, the use of new historical sources. The study is based on the works of historians, philologists, philosophers, geographers, writers and poets of the Golden Age of the Roman Empire (II century AD). This selection of sources allows to recreate a full picture of the intellectuals’ views on the past in the Roman Empire of the IInd century AD. In addition, the study has an interdisciplinary nature because of the use of  methods of  the source studies  and historical memory. The works of ancient philosophers as a source of historical culture in the Roman Empire will allow to some extent to reveal the heritage of antiquity. Thus, the development of this issue will supplement the knowledge about human’s 	worldview in antiquity, especially in the Roman Empire of the IInd century AD.

The purpose of the study is to reveal and characterize the views of the ancient authors of  II century AD for exploring the historic sights in antiquity. 
               
It is essential to achieve the following objectives in order to answer the purpose:
1. to make a historiographical review of the literature on the study of memory; 
2. to reveal a correlation between the views on historical events and social phenomena;
3. to analyze a ways of transmission of social memory about the past;
4. to detect the aspects of  historical consciousness;
5. to present the functioning of historical memory.
               
Research problems are the following: firstly, reconstruction and analysis of complexes of historical ideas and conclusions about its formulating, secondly, reasons of fixation, maintenance or change images of the past in social consciousness, thirdly, reflection of the social and spiritual context of the time in historical myths and symbols.

The concept of the ‘past’ in our understanding  is a period of  ancient Greece and Rome history, which is  present in the compositions used as sources in this study. By the same token, “historical memory” in the framework of this research is a complex of prescientific, scientific, pseudoscientific and extrascientific knowledge  and wide-spread ideas about common past (Repina, 2003, P. 12).
               
Chronologically the researches of memory are diposed in the following way: the works by Henri Bergson, Abraham Moritz Warburg, Maurice Halbwachs, P.Nora, Ya.Assman, P. Hatton, Garnsey P., Kruger O.O., M.M. Postnikov, A. Confino, Jeffrey K. Olick, Joyce Robbins, Mellor R., Z.Kopelman, W. Kansteiner, Repina L.P., I.E. Koznova, I.N. Gorin, V.V. Menshikov, Limonov V.A., Sinitsyn N.A., Mendels D., V. Dementieva, Badmaev V.N., A.F. Losev, Maklakov A.G.,  Surikov I.E., Samokhvalova N.E., Voronov V.M., E.A. Rostovtsev, Sosnitskiy D.A.
               
Studies of memory began at the turn of XIX-XX centuries. In the XIX century in psychology memory was considered as an ability of the individual consciousness and the unconscious (Henri Bergson, Sigismund Freud). At the same period there was interest in the collective representations (Emile Durkheim), collective psychology (G.Lebon, G. Tarde), which in the XXth century led to the fact that memory (from the point of view of the collective and the relationship of collective and individual) occured in the focus of psychology (Freud, Carl Jung, V. Bekhterev, L.Vygodsky, A.Leontev), social sciences (M.Halbvaks, P.Zhane, Berdyaev, R. Barthes, K.Bekker).
               
Thus, the theme of memory is actively studied during the XX century in Europe, while in Russia it became a subject of study in the second half of 80-ies of XX century (Koznova, 2003, P. 24). In Russia specialists of  world history were the first, who conducted researches on the subject of historical memory, and their topics were related to the history of western countries (Rostovtsev, Sosnitsky, 2014, P. 108).
               
However, the concept of memory in Russia was studied earlier. In the 40-ies of XX century Soviet psychology formed the opinion that memory is a "brain function, and physiological basis of memory is the plasticity of the nervous system" (Maklakov, 2001, P. 254). At the same time, since the nervous system is plastic, each nerve-brain process leaves its mark that changes the nature of future processes and causes "the possibility of their reemergence, when the stimulus acting on the senses there is absent" (Maklakov, 2001, P. 254). However, memory studies, which began at the turn of XIX-XX centuries, today is the subject of study not only of natural, but also og the humanities and social sciences, so the types of memory are divided according to several criteria. 
               
Historiography provides several definitions of memory. For example, R. Johnson treats memory as a "sense of the past",  Pierre Nora regards it as "dialogue, the process of creating meanings", " the preservation of the past in the present", D. Nero - as "a symbolic representation about the tradition and the past, arising in the context of social activity ", D. Likhachev and Lotman - as" exgenetic" memory of the mankind (Koznova, 2003, P. 25). In this work the following definition is used: “historical memory” is a complex of prescientific, scientific, pseudoscientific and extrascientific knowledge  and wide-spread ideas about common past (Repina, 2003, P. 12).
               
The emergence of the concept of "collective memory" is associated with history of mentalities and the monograph of European scientist.  Abraham Warburg (1866-1929), a historian of art and culture, in 1920 became one of the first, who used the concept of "collective memory" (Confino, 1997, p. 1388). "He came to believe that the key to deciphering art and culture lay in tracing the collective memory of primitive, primeval beliefs and responses that continued to shape our world through shared symbols» (Confino, 1997, p. 1390).
               
Mourice Halbwachs (1877 -1945), the French sociologist, in his monograph "The social frameworks of memory" (1925) examines the formation of collectives' memory, also pays attention to individual memory. According to Halbwachs thoughts, memories are always a reconstruction, in contrast to the dreams that are experienced by man as the present and intertwined with fiction. At the same time, says M. Halbwachs, a person cannot look at his past, abandoning experience of later life. The second chapter is devoted to the study of the relationship between speech and memory. The man pronounces the memory before he calls it in memory. In other words, people remember only that what is indicated by words that also change their meaning or stop to be used over time. Thus, collective memory, for M. Halbwachs, has a historical character. Tradition changes in the interests of our time for maintaining a connection with the past (Kolyagina, 2009, http://urokiistorii.ru/media/book/halbwachs). According to M. Halbwachs, historical science is opposed to the memory of society. This thesis has determined one of the main questions in the study of memory.
               
Pierre Nora (b. 1931), the French historian, also opposes memory and history. In the article "The problem of places of memory" P.Nora emphasizes the difference between history and memory that are "relevant phenomena experienced by communication with the eternal present" and "past representation" (Nora, 1999, P.20). However, this is only applies to current memory and history. Speaking about the historiography of the past, P.Nora outlines that in archaic societies, memory and history are not separated. This memory he calls true, unspoiled, and it serves a model for modern social memory. In addition, P.Nora is the creator of the concept of places of memory, by which he understands the material, symbolic and functional aspects of reality, talking about the past (Nora, 1999, P.40).
               
Koznova I.E. distinguishes beside memory levels (collective and individual)  also types of memory: the memory of traditional society and modern memory (memory of modern society). At the same time as in the past and in the present (in the memory of a person or group of people, the whole society) the scholars revealed features of both forms of memory (Koznova, 2003, P. 27-28). There is also a society with predominantly written or mainly spoken  memory (Koznova, 2003, P. 27).
               
Jan Assmann (b. 1938), the German historian and archaeologist, distinguised individual and collective memory (Assmann 2004, P. 94-95). The latter is also subdivided into communicative and cultural. Communicative memory, according to the author, is the memory associated with the recent past. This is the memory that man shares with his contemporaries (Assmann 2004, P. 52). Cultural memory keeps the fixed moments of the past. The author also notices that communicative memory is available to whole society, but cultural memory is only for a certain group of people, such as shamans, bards, grio, priests, teachers, artists, writers, scientists, tangerines and others. (Assmann 2004, P.56). Collective memory is opposed to history. (Assmann 2004, P. 44). 
               
P.H. Hutton, the British historian, does not oppose history and memory. P. Hutton believes that the science of history from ancient times has been immersed in collective memory, constantly repeating the past (Hutton, 2004, P. 23-24). He assumes, that the story is the art of memory, due to the fact that it mediates repetition and memory (Hutton, 2004, P. 23). 
               
Thus, the study of memory began at the turn of XIX-XX centuries in Europe.   In general, the memory is understood as a process of creation of the past. There are several classifications of memory in the humanities and social sciences. It is important that  the study of collective memory needs in approach of humanities, but not psychology. The reason for this is that individual memory depends largely on mental characteristics of man, not on social institutions, while collective memory does on the contrary. In early studies of this problem scholars regarded the story as the opposite to historical memory, but today the science of history is also considered as depending on the present. Both individual and collective memory vary depending on the present: any element can be saved or forgotten depending on the needs of the present. In addition, it should be noted that this contrast can be a characteristic of our time, as noted by P.Nora and P.Hatton, but not for an archaic society.

The principles given by L.P. Repina’s and O.M. Medushevskaya’s works were used in this research as methods. These principles were denoted by authors in the article “Social crises and cataclysms in historical memory: theory and practice of research” and in the work “Source studies: theory, history, method", 1998 respectively.
               
The principles of L.P. Repina’s monograph lay in four essential points: 1. “The analysis of separate historical myths formation, and their specific functions, environment of their existence, marginalization or reactualization in common historical consciousness”. 2. “Determination of the basic characteristics of historical memory”. 3. “Identification of correlation between perception of historical events and social phenomena”. 4. “Ways to maintain the social memory of the past”. She built these principles on the following tenets: 1. “The content of collective memory varies in accordance with the social context and practical priorities”. 2. “Historical consciousness is a set of historical knowledge and assessments of the past”. Repina had not the aim to establish, if memories are true or false. The author focuses on the reasons for fixing, maintaining or changing of an image of the past in public consciousness, and how historical myths and symbols reflect the social and religious context of the time (Repina, 2015, P. 13).
               
In its turn, O.M. Medushevskaya’s principles include determination of 1) historical conditions of occurrence of a source, 2) authorship of a source, 3) circumstances of the creation of a source, 4) history of the source text 5) history of a source publication, 6) interpretation of a source, 7) analysis of the source content, 8) source studies synthesis. These principles are main in any historical research. In this research they are appropriate, because it is primarily  based on source data.

It might be expected that the research will let get the following results. Historiography of memory studies has not yet focused its attention on historical culture of IInd century AD in the Roman Empire. Social phenomena determine quality of the views on historical events. Soial memory about the past, we assume, is transmitted in several ways: verbal memories, legends, various records and documents cops, historical works, monumental memorials, festivals, stage shows, etc. (Repina, 2015, P. 12). Historical consciousness has certain aspects; and it fulfills specific tasks. So, based on the considered materials the following conclusions could be made. There are elements of individual and collective memory in the writings of ancient authors I-II centuries AD. Events and personalities of the past appear in their writings, even if they tell about their present, that is the past, on the one hand, acts as an independent topic of research (for example in the works of Strabo, Arrian), on the other hand, as a way to disprove or prove something modern and give an example from the history (for example, in the writings of Dion Chrysostom, Plutarch, Suetonius, Aelianus). It should also be noted that, according to the Mellor R., «roman historians were deeply devoted to the moral and political functions of history" but "they seem to have been less interested in the intelligent use of it, to which it could be applied» (Mellor, 1999, P. 198).Overall, the study suggests reconstruction and analysis of historical representations and conditions of their appearance in the Roman Empire of the second century AD.

Today the study of memory is an interdisciplinary field of study. There are disputes about the methods of studying of memory in the historiography. Also there are a lot of definitions of historical memory  in historiography. However, common to all definitions is that historical memory is constructed in the present time.
               
The sources are, on the one hand, the memory of traditional society, because it has the following features: continuity (it is primarily to collective memory), and this memory is focused on the history of the boards, conquests and religion. On the other hand, considered sources also contain examples of individual memory, which, according to I.E. Koznova., is a feature of the memory of modern society. Individual memory is not focused on political events of the past and did not represent a subjective view of the political events of the past. In the I-II centuries AD in the Roman Empire memory is divided into collective memory and historical knowledge (science), because in the higher groups of society attempts were made to verify the reliability of the rumors and stories circulated among the people.
               
The works of ancient authors may be considered as the part of the historical memory, because reviewed works are also related to the needs of the present. Individual memory has correlation with collective memory and is oriented on questions of religion, rites and has uncritical attitude to information about the past. In this case it is necessary to speak about the works of historians (Plutarch, Strabo, Suetonius, Arrian). The characteristic features of their works are: 1. Topics: biographies of the rulers, the conquest of the land and their characteristics. 2. The priority periods of the past for describing: the classical period of ancient Greece, Hellenism, the history of imperial Rome, 3. sources: written, physical and verbal, 4. Genres: speech, word, memorable records, biographies and historical works. 5. Goals: teaching, retaining the memory about the past.
               
In addition, the works of ancient thinkers, which were writing memory of society, reflect the historical memory of the society of the Roman Empire I-II cent. AD.  It (the stories, rumors, "poems" and overall presentation) has been represented in their works as sources. Based on the literature we identified the following approaches to these sources: the use of the collective memory as a source 1) with further validation (Strabo), 2) single source for the reconstruction of biographies of philosophers and poets (Dio Chrysostom, Eliane), 3) source to explain customs (Plutarch), 4) source for the reconstruction of biographies of emperors, rulers (Suetonius, Arrian) 5) use the collective memory to make the text more awareness and perhaps convincing (Aelius Aristides). Thus, in the writings of thinkers I-II cent. AD were saved the views of the past various groups of society.