The funeral rite is important part of everyday life of people therefore it attracts attention of scholars. The roman funeral rite closely tied up with politics and economics of Rome. The social part of this phenomenon has not been studied separately from them. The relevance of study is to reveal previously unknown sides of the phenomenon, the discovery of new causal relations and their ratio with the established concepts. 

The aim of research is to reveal the roots the origin, the evolution and reconstructing the funeral rite.  The research decides following tasks for completely disclosure the purpose. Firstly, I examine preparing the body to burial that includes the types of burial and special features of the burial. Secondly, I am trying to define the role of funeral processions to define romans’ attitude toward death. 

The practical result will be reconstruction the funeral rite with explanation the preconditions which had influence on the change in the essence of the ritual.

The research is devoted to the funeral practice so the main question is linked to the concept of death. How do Romans perceive death? Where are the souls of the dead? Does death of a person mean his exclusion from society? The next question is about the practical side of the ritual. How does it happen? In the research will be analyzed the actions of the participants of the ritual and their impact on society. 

The key term of the research is death. The research explores the more philosophical concept of death, the perception of a person's death as a metaphysical effect. 

In the world, the nature of decease and humanity’s awareness of its own mortality has for millennia been a care of the world’s religious traditions and of philosophical scrutiny. Death acquires social significance; the attitude to it is expressed in religious doctrines, aesthetic values.	
     
Even in the earliest stages of humanity development are added specific social norms governing as a shape of communication with the dying man, as the way burial of a corpse. 
     
Memorial rites after death can comprise various mourning, funeral practices and ceremonies of honoring the dead. The corporeal remains of an individual are usually inhumed total or reduced a dead body to ashes by fire, though amid the world’s cultures there are a variety of other methods of mortuary disposal. 
     
The second key term is funeral. The funeral procession is a ritual for veneration, esteeming, hallowing or recollecting the life of the individual who has deceased. Burial practices include the aggregate of beliefs and customs used by a culture to remember the dead, from entombment itself, to distinct memorials, orisons, and rites undertaken in their honor. The obsequies often have religious facets which are meant to aid the soul of the dead attain the life after death, resurrection or reincarnation. Roman burial practices comprise the Ancient Romans’ religious rites relating to inhumation and cremation. They were piece of the Tradition. Although burials were chiefly a worry of the family, which was of paramount significance in Roman society, those who lacked the support of an expanded family commonly appertained to collegia or guilds which granted funeral services for members. 
     
The range of sources that contain information about Roman funeral rites is quite wide but there are no works in which the data about funeral rites sets out systematically. Another feature of the source base on the subject is the extreme fragmentation and dispersion of information and in some cases, any message or remark occurs only once. 
     
The relevant information is comprised in the writings of Cicero (7), Livy (9), Ovid (11), Virgil (13) and Martial (10) and others sources. 
     
The Aeneid by Virgil is perceived Virgil’s great writing and one of the quite significant poems in the developing of western literature. Virgil wrote the Aeneid during the last eleven years of his life, on request by Augustus. The heroic poem comprises of twelve books in dactylic hexameter verse which represent the travelling of Aeneas, a warrior seeking safety in flight for looting of Troy, to Italy, his fight with the Italian king Turnus, and the ground of a town from which future Rome would arise (13, P. 132). This source contains a large material about ceremonial and ritual practices of romans. The crucial significance has the writings of Plutarch, in particular "Roman Questions". Plutarch draws attention to the peculiarities of roman religious life, which were obvious for romans and have not been explained minutely (12). 
     
Aulus Gellius in The Attic Nights quotes and discusses portions of some two hundred and seventy-five ancient authors, and his comments are usually of significance. He offers useful information on public and private antiquities, history and biography, philosophy, points of law, text criticism, literary criticism, and various other topics, including the funeral rites (8). 
     
The main research about funeral rituals is monograh “Death and Burial in roman world” by J. M. C. Toynbee. J. M. C. Toynbee’s monograph explores burial customs from a broad diversity of aspects. First, author observes Roman convictions about decease and the life after  death, unveiling that few romans have confidence in the existence of the Elysian Fields of poetic invention. She then discloses the rites tied up  with funerals and sables, for example, memorable food at the graves were common, with the some burial chambers having built-in kitchens and places where family could tenure nightlong. Toynbee also comprehend representations of  the arrangement of graveyards, the grave kinds of the rich and poor, and types of memorial plaque and monuments in addition tombs’ furniture (5, P. 25). 
     
Professor Toynbee's welcome addition to the Aspects of Greek and Roman Life series gives an admirably lucid and detailed account of the concrete manifestations of death in Roman society, from the earliest times to the end of Rome's hegemony. The first Chapter  gives a brief survey of Etruscan ideas, rites and tombs, as holding pride of place among the streams of Etruscan influence on Rome. The second chapter discusses the possible influence of Roman beliefs on Roman practice. Chapter 3 describes public and private cults of the dead, but not the veneration of emperors and martyrs. The fourth chapter offers, with numbered plans and glimpses of the funeral industry, descriptions of cemeteries at Aquileia, Isola Sacra and the accessible parts of the Vatican necropolis; eniclosed cemeteries in Britain and Gaul; and an account from literary and epigraphic evidence of funeral gardens.
     
The kernel of the book consists of Chapters 5 and 6, which give an excellent conspectus of the practices of Roman society from the poorest to the series of imperial monuments which continued from Augustus to Theodoric. As far as possible, the order is chronological; Chapter 5 deals mainly with Italy, Chapter 6 with every corner of the empire, reserving especial detail for the rock-cut tombs at Petra and the hypogea at Palmyra. 
     
Although we find a concise and arresting account of what death meant to most Romans and to a few minority groups in the Roman world and several ways in which the dead were laid to rest, the bulk of her work consists of a neatly classified assortment of descriptions of mortuary art, architecture and artifacts. Her artistic emphasis, in fact, proves so strong that her title could well have reflected this feature of her work.
     
In 2006 German researcher Stefan Schrumpf published a book «Funeral and mortuary business in the Roman Empire. The process, scope of social and economic importance of caring for the dead in the Latin West» (4). The author raises a few questions. Firstly, he figures out how significant were the pragmatic components in the funeral rites. Secondly, he perceives the Roman funeral equipment and activities of relevant «specialists» and communities as part of the economy.   The rest of the author's conclusions serve to illustrate this point of view: the burial was a matter of lucrative, especially because the competition was relatively weak. From a social point of view in the funerary rituals is manifested collectivism. The funeral rite strengthens ties in society. 
     
The following articles transfer that burial customs attracted attention better in social and legal context. The work “Death-Ritual and social structure in classical antiquity” by Ian Morris unveils how funerals may be used as an incomparable informative source for roman social history (3). Morris argues that scholars of classical antiquity can learn a great deal about the societies by studying the "classical way of death." The style of disposing of the remains (burial versus cremation), the contents of graves, funeral monuments, inscriptions on tombs and headstones, and examination of the skeletal remains can each shed light on the social structure of the society. The book presents examples of how such studies can advance understanding of classical society. For my research, the monograph by Ian Morris allows to review subject from other side.  
     
The following work is devoted to the study of the customs associated with death. Thomas Shearer Duncan studies the custom to transfer your soul with a kiss (1). The belief that the soul passed out of the body through the mouth was an ancient one. The tradition seems to be that the superstition is very old; and no doubt it is. It is surprising, however, that a comparatively small number of references to it is found in Roman literature.
     
The significant value has a monograph “Early Rome: The tombs” by E. Gjerstad.     A thorough re-study of the published and unpublished records of the excavations, checked by re-excavation in the Forum, has enormously clarified and extended our picture of pre-Etruscan Rome. Much of interest emerges from this thorough re-examination of the burial finds. Contents of the tombs at the Sacra Via illuminate the literary evidence on funerary customs. References to the porca praesentanea and the insistence of ancient sources on the sacrifice of a pig as part of the funerary rites are borne out by the predominance of bones of pigs among the animal remains found in the tombs. The frequency of fish bones correlates with later occurrence of the fish as a religious symbol in pagan as well as Christian belief, and may possibly explain a curious rite which Ovid describes in his account of the Feralia, Fasti II. [2, P. 156-157].
     
The survey of burial customs in the Esquiline necropolis notes some significant variations from those of the Sacra Via, such as a difference in construction of ' pozzo ' tombs and a marked frequency of weapons in the burial offerings, that reflect the culture of originally separate communities (2, P. 321).
     
No less interesting are the conclusions on the relative frequency of cremation and inhumation in successive periods. With more discriminating criteria of date it has been possible to determine that cremation was less completely displaced than was formerly believed. The conclusion that cremation continued throughout the time covered by the cemeteries accords better with the known fact that cremation was the rite commonly practiced in historical Rome (2, P. 227). 
Methods
     
The study is based on the principle of historicism, which allows us to consider the phenomenon in its development, to understand, to interpret correctly and to identify those features that are not confined to the past but also the present and the future. Since this work is devoted to the study and reconstruction of the funeral ceremonies, the study is not possible without communication with other disciplines. In particular, it has been used archaeological data. Also, the principles of understanding and explanation  were used as hermeneutical procedures, which give the opportunity to know the reality, and interpret it, even in the context that the author did not initially invested in his work.
     
The basis of the study is a comprehensive critical analysis of the sources. The comparative-historical method applies to explain the meaning of certain beliefs, rites and cults. It admits to identify the similarities and differences in the respective Roman funeral ceremonies. The historical and typological comparison is reveal the purpose of the rite  on the basis of common features of diverse ceremonial elements. As shown by A. Van Gennep in his study of rites of passage, ritual elements of all peoples, without exception, are repeated and all its diversity has a similar value. He has developed a system, that can be determine the internal link between funeral customs.  A. van Gennep points out, that every ritual consists of a chain of specific actions that must be performed in the prescribed manner. Only under this condition can talk about the made rite (6, P. 97). His tool is the most appropriate; as it allows understanding the essence of various religious activities is remaining within the frameworks of religious life.
Results Anticipated
     
The main expected result of this study is the reconstruction of a funeral ceremony with the description and explanation of the key elements of the ritual.
Conclusion
      
The features Roman religion are explained its social system. The social institutions significantly influenced on the religious rites. The Romans paid particular attention to the funeral action because they believed that the dead can bring the greatest harm to the state and society. No wonder that in any rituals are noticeable two components: public and private.
        
The Roman ritual practice contains a large number of elements, similar to the religions of other nations, so should not be seen as something unique. Roman religion comprises many rituals the magical character. For their explanation is appropriate to use the theory of A. van Gennep about the rites of transition, as it is logical and suggests multivariance when one ritual may carries several meanings.
        
The society has sought to regulate all processes of transition to the next world. Thus, the social component is clearly seen in the rites of funeral ceremonies. The society dictated the citizens how to venerate the ancestors. 
       
There are two types of burial: inhumation and cremation, but their meaning changed over time. Initially, both species coexisted, although reflect social differences between people. In II. BC. - I c. BC cremation prevailed, but then the custom changed again. The changing the custom was associated more with pragmatic considerations than religious.
       
Funeral rites include two elements: the rites directly related to the dead and those who were included in the family and the house. The first provides the dead a decent transition into the other world, and the latter served to cleanse the family and home from the contamination. The connection between the living and the dead in Roman society was incredibly strong, therefore romans have a large quantity of the public and private days for sacrifice and remembrance.         