Drama by Bernard Shaw, John Galsworthy and Somerset Maugham had the most significant impact on readers and viewers. The way the authors depicted English society, the problems they raised and the way they interpreted them influenced the formation of a certain image of England in the minds of contemporaries, which, in turn, influenced the vision of English social life of subsequent generations. The relevance of study is to construct a certain image of English society presented in the plays and compare it with reality.
     
The aim of this research is to reconstruct the image of English society represented in drama by John Galsworthy, Bernard Shaw and Somerset Maugham. The research decides following tasks for completely disclosure the purpose. Firstly, make a problematic and thematic analysis of plays by Shaw, Galsworthy and Maugham. Secondly, make a comparative analysis of the image of English society in the plays of Galsworthy, Maugham, Shaw: the identification of common themes, similarities and differences in their interpretation.

Significance of this work due to the importance of using literature as a historical source and a weak development of this methodology applied to modern and contemporary literature. There are many ways to use this concept as a part of historical research.

The research is devoted to the English society so the main question is linked to the social life of English people. What aspects of life of English society at the beginning of the XX century was considered by the most important playwrights of the time? What social issues are most relevant in the late XIX - early XX century? What historical events influenced the formation of these issues? What was the position of women in society? Whether there was social mobility? Whether traditional English foundations were broken or not? What was reaction of society? Did position of working class change? How society treated the government?

The key term of the research is drama. According to the statement of A.G. Sokolov «Drama - is a special way of choice (selection) content of the product and the relative position of its parts, which allows the author to actively manage thinking, interest and attention of viewers». The main feature of drama as a kind of literature – the limitations in the choice of expressive means. At the disposal of the writer only direct speech of the characters, the dialogue, through which need to excite and hold the interest of viewers.

Second key terms is social mobility. The concept of "social mobility" has introduced by a well-known Russian-American sociologist P. Sorokin. He defined social mobility as a set of social movements of people between the different positions in the hierarchy of social stratification. In 1927 in New York P. Sorokin published the work "Social mobility", which formulates the objectives, principles and basic concepts of the study of various movements of individuals in a heterogeneous social space.
   
Women’s issue occupied the great place in the English social life of the early 20th century. Thus, another key term of the research is suffrage - the bourgeois women's movement in England of the early 20th century for granting women equal voting rights. Suffragettes also argued against the discrimination of women in political and economic life.
   
One of the Shaw’s plays is called «The Apple Cart».  It is necessary to comment on this title. The title of the play dates back to the English idiomatic expression «to upset somebody's applecart». It is mean: to frustrate, to make a ruckus, to overturn the generally accepted view and so on.
    
The range of sources that contain information about English social history and drama itself is quite wide but there are no works in which English society was reconstructed based on the plays. Thus, it is possible to divide literature into three groups: monographs about writer’s biography and review of their art, literature on the history of England and works on history of the English literature in general and dramatic art in particular.
     
One of the most important monographs for my research is the «George Bernard Shaw’s Historical Plays»	written by R. N. Roy and published in 1976. This monograph is an attempt to consider the drama method of Shaw in the aspect of the several problems. Some of the plays just mentioned, others described briefly. More detailed analysis involved the best Shaw’s plays, which allow to see the main features of the dramatic method of the writer.
     
The monograph by A. M. Gibbs «A Bernard Shaw Chronology» provides a brief overview of the history of the English theater of the late XIX - early XX century, clearly identified and explained the stages of spiritual and creative evolution of Bernard Shaw, an analysis of the most significant plays of the playwright.
     
The next work, involved to this research - James Gindin «John Galsworthy’s Life and Art». This is a monographic work, which in full considers the career of writer and comprehensively analyzes the plays of Galsworthy. The monograph presents findings about both the individual creative manner of Galsworthy and some general regularities of the world literary process in the modern era.
     
Another monograph, used as literature - Alec Freche «John Galsworthy: A Reassessment». Literary critic is a recognized expert in the history of English literature. His work devoted to deep analysis of the work of one of the representatives of the English literary classics. The book is also a critical-biographical sketch of the life and work of John Galsworthy, British novelist and playwright, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature.
     
The monograph about Somerset Maugham was written by Samuel Rogal. He presents his book as a biographical monograph about «the most widely read and one of the most successful British writers of the XX century. Despite the fact that he led a life well-ordered and even measured, it was quite bright and saturated, there were a lot of friends and acquaintances, many love stories, a lot of traveling, and a lot of creativity. About such people, it is said - self-made man - a man who has made himself».
     
Also, there was involved the literature on the history of England such as Morgan O. «History of Great Britain». Many interesting and sometimes little-known facts makes it easier to imagine the complexity of the ethnic, political and cultural development of the peoples who inhabited and inhabit the territory of the present United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, for a vast period of history - from the Roman Conquest to the 90-ies of XX century.
     
Next monograph is «Essays on the history of England» by A. L. Morton. The book covered a significant period of English history that is associated with the industrial revolution and the transformation of England in the «workshop of the world», with the creation of a huge colonial empire, with the aggravation of class antagonisms in the country, poured out into a mass movement of the Chartists. Particular attention is paid to the workers' movement in England.
     
Another monograph is «England. The history of the country». Christopher Daniel in his detailed well-structured book takes us from ancient times through the whole tangled history of the English people. Despite the traditional isolation, continued commitment to the notorious "British" sense of humor and commitment to "fair play", the English as a nation formed as a result of the long history of migration, expansion and foreign invasions.
      
And the last is «English social history» by Trevelyan G. M. Trevelyan’s book was first published in 1942, it is one of his later works being the quintessence of theoretical and methodological and philosophical views of the English historian. Trevelyan defines social history as an intermediary between the political and economic history. Thus, in Trevelyan's understanding the social history is a wide panorama of the historical process covering various spheres of human activity.
     
Works on the history of English literature in general and drama in particular includes two main books. The first one is «Essays on the history of the drama of the 20th century» by Zingerman B.I. The book examines the development of European drama of the XX century. Analyzing the work of European writers, the author traces the formation of various artistic movements, one way or another adjoining to the tradition of the new drama. The evolution of the drama, which covers the period from the turn of the century to the Second World War, given on a background of public life and in connection with the development of performing arts.
     
And second is B.A. Gilenson’s «The history of foreign literature at the end of XIX - early XX century». Philosophical and esthetic currents as naturalism, symbolism, impressionism, etc., and also a phenomenon of "the new drama" are characterized. The reviews recreating historic-literary process in the certain countries are combined with monographic chapters about writers. Interaction of verbal art with philosophy, painting, and music is traced.

The methodology of this study is hermeneutical method. The founder of the modern hermeneutic theory is considered the German scholar Friedrich Schleiermacher, author of the treatise "Hermeneutics". The hermeneutic analysis - a method of interpretation (interpretation) of speech, including written texts, identifying those hidden, implicit meanings and values, veiled information. Interpretation of works shall be determined by the author's system of values, his ethical choice. A feature of Schleiermacher's method is the inclusion of interpretation work is not only logic and rhetorical categories, but also instinct, "unconscious" works of understanding by "internal logic".

The main expected result of this study is the reconstruction of English social life and social problems presented in the plays by John Galsworthy, Bernard Shaw and Somerset Maugham, and comparison to one another and with reality. Also, I hope to prove that through the thematic and problematic analysis of drama it is possible to reconstruct the image of English society at the beginning of the XX century created by the writers.

After analyzing the plays, you can understand what the image of English society of the XX century English writers were trying to create in the minds of their contemporaries. In each play the attention paid to the different problems: whether the conflict within the family institution, or interclass conflicts. However, after considering all the plays in turn it is possible to construct a common image of English society.
     
The English society of the beginning of the 20th century in plays can be characterized so: it is a contradictory society. There is still alive traditional and ingrained traditions of the Victorian and Edwardian era, at the same time, against the background of the struggle of women and working for their rights, against the background of revolutions and wars, the British society begins an inevitable transformation towards a new order and the existence of laws.
     
English writers paint society that is torn apart by conflicts. A society that can not be the same, which is divided into ideological and cultural and social groups, with varying degrees of material wealth and standard of living of the bourgeoisie and the common people, the bourgeoisie and the old aristocracy, and a crowd of lonely, resisting personality. A society in which the old traditional foundations desperately struggling with all the innovations and changes in people's lives.
     
Apart from the fact that in English society dominated by patriarchal remnants, immense power of the capitalists, industrialists and poverty, there is also no social mobility.
     
One of the major themes that runs almost through the whole drama is a women's issue. Writers believe that women should finally get the civil rights and position in society. They promotes equality and the role of the woman which should be increased in society: she shall have the right to choose to marry or not, with whom to be combined by conjugal ties, shall have the right to build career, to enter clubs on interests, to become the full-fledged member of the English society. The women's issue in plays developed against the background of feminist movements and the formation of suffrage organizations.