Citizens of the Russian Federation is searching for the national idea in the last two decades. Heroes of books (f.e. V.O. Pelevin "Generation P"), films (f.e. A.P. Zvyagintsev "Leviathan"), performances (f.e. projects of E. Kovylina) are focused on the way of modern democratic Russia. The president of the country speaks openly about a creation of the Russian national project, also members of federals, state and local representatives bodies discuss related matters. Indeed the issue under question plays an important role in modern civil science. A constructing of new national idea is a deep research topic of humanity's scholars, in particular, historians, political experts. In the last few years there has been a growing interest in this problem. Academics explore the past experience of the country which help to analyze the reality.  

The aim of this study is to give a new illustrations to the creation of the Russian national project. The subject of the paper is Industrial exhibitions in the end of XIXth century, which took place in the world and in the Russian Empire. We consider the expositions in terms of general organizer government and of regular participant businessman.  Accordingly, the study meets two large challenges: first is to reconstruct public image of businessmen in Russia in the end of XIXth century, second is to consider the exhibitions, as a communication instrument of government and  employers in the national Russian project. 

Developing the topic author refers to the works by various researchers. Exhibitions could be examine in specific light in monographs, which are focus on history of art or of architecture, on national legislation, on building capitalist relations in the Russian economy. Papers on this subject are targeted. The scientific novelty of this study is the comprehensive approach to the exhibitions, as to the part of a deliberate national policy, which is aimed at  various social groups. Also the paper could be interesting for modern statists. Today state government  searches an effective way to communicate with business. Employers and bureaucrats can find a common language for the time being only in financial sphere. Perhaps the experience of predecessors in communication could be usable for state executive of today. 
Professional significance. The research has time and place delimitations, namely it is constrained to the period of board of last three Russian emperors, that is, between 1855 and 1917. Nevertheless author would have to address to an earlier periods of native history in several phases of the study. In the research it examines the process of image-making of new social group of businessman. The character of employers was transforming across the national Russian project. In terms of location the study is limited by borders of the Russian Empire and by European countries, when the world exhibitions were located (The Great Britain (1851), France (1867, 1878, 1889, 1900), Austria (1873), the USA (1893)). Entrepreneurs did business not only in the Russian territory, but they closed the deal with foreign partners. Properly this image was exported abroad.    

The issue of nation and nationalism in science was appeared after the French Revolution 1789. This event changed a patriarchal conception of nation. For the first time, world ''nation'' used for a designation of student's bands in the Italian university of Bologna. They were organized in a territorial principle. Countryman cooperated and fought with interlopers in the Bologna's streets. Later this principle of student's organization was following by others medieval universities. D'Artagnan calls himself ''Gascon'' and he's proud for his coarse accents on arrival in Paris. This regional world view was characterized for all habitants of the planet Earth in the Middle Ages and in The Age of Enlightenment . Environment has changed since Modern Time. The Age of Discovery, an appearance of new instrument of communication (Johannes Gutenberg's invention of modern printing) and the Protestant Reformation extend the boundaries of cultural elite's world perception. So, for example in France and the Great Britain political philosophies created the social contract, in which the population of the country is direct community, which has his own interests and special aspects. The ideas of government mercantilists policy made a distinction between civilizational countries and colonies. In the end of XVIIth century, in the wrong time for European world, the French Revolution to respond to several questions. For instance, it gave a new system of identification yourself, that did not need a religion or a place of birth. The idea of nation with concepts of liberty, equality and fraternity spreads quickly to elite's of Old World. 

Bright people of Italy, the Great Britain, the Russian Empire, Austria-Hungary obsessed about nationalist ideas and movements. On the base of old traditions and archetypes the new social constructs was appeared, us national language, national system of education, national army. As a result, in the end of XIXth century countries get a lot of experience, troubles and contradictions, which outdated approaches couldn't solve. Therefore humanities borrow natural-science theories, in particular, darwinism. The evolutionism had changed ethnographic researches, that had previously been recruited empirical data. In contrast to dominated macro approach, in the evolutionistic theories  considered public as autonomous object with its own civilizational development path (E. Tylor, L-H. Morgan, J. G. Frazer). In 1929 researches, Lucien Febvre and Marc Bloch, made journal "Annales d'histoire ?conomique et sociale". In this title published studies address to different links between historical events in accordance with global economic and social spheres. New historical approaches and theoretical models aroused under academic discussion and in pages of scientific magazines. Two modern conceptions of ethnographic science was made: primordialism (Y. Bromley, L.N. Gumilyov), constructivism (B. Anderson, P. Bourdieu, E. Gellner). The author of the study stands by constructivist concept. In the base of theory it underlies comprehension of the nation as construct building by political and culture elites. For analysis of national Russian project in the end of XIXth century will be used methodological approaches of  Eric Hobsbawm, one of  constructivist ideologists. In scientific community the Britain scholar is famous by serial of books «Long XIXth century» (2,3,4), which are at the core of the research. In the monographs he uses definition "invented tradition" and reconstruct practices of creation of European national traditions across the XIXth century. Modern scientist criticized the study for Marxist philosophy, ignored in the post-soviet space. 

In native science national discourse leaves open the question for scholar's discusses. For example, historians have clear pictures for English nationalism depicted by Liah Greenfeld in the book «Nationalism and the Mind» (5). In Soviet and Russian studies a general agreement for the national project of Russia isn't formed. Nevertheless there are researchers (A.A. Teslya, A.H. Daudova, V.V. Koroteeva) and forums to argue into close professional community (Historia nationem gignit, Gefter). In the paper we refer to the works of international authors published in scientist journal "Ab Imperio". The main issue of articles is nationalism in empires (Britain, Russian, Soviet). Further materials are taken from specific conferences: «History, Memory, Identity: Theoretical Foundations and Research Practices» (2016),  «Nation and ethnicity in humanity» (2006). The reports are relevant for the study in subject of methodologist practices. Summing up in the center of researchers there is a problem of relationships between individual and government in an imperial space (Russian, Soviet). However the issue of representation construct traditions by special social groups is fruitful for research.  In this study's field the attractive topic is industrial exhibitions in the end of XIXth century. In this space government and important social group of businessman reunited and their relationship were framing by aspects of national project. 
XIXth century is the age of modernization. In European countries the process of industrialization developed science and  manufacturing. The governments, scientists and entrepreneurs were needed to presenting the industrial success of the country.  In 1851 in London the first World Exhibition was organized by prince Albert, who was interested in mechanic and developing of industrial process: 
  
The distances which separated the different nations and parts of the globe are rapidly vanishing before the achievements of modern invention, and we can traverse them with incredible ease; the languages of all nations are known, and their acquirement placed within the reach of everybody; thought is communicated with the rapidity, and even by the power, of lightning (Consort's speech, 1851). 
The exhibition practice was followed by others countries. In XIXth century there were organized 8 world exhibitions in three European capitals (London, Paris, Vienna) and one in the banks of America (Florida).  There  were great events with thousands participants, with score of special pavilions (f.e. the Crystal Palace in London), with new entertainments (f.e. cinema in Paris), surprising discoveries (f.e. the glass of Slavyanov in Florida). Moreover there were organized specific (scientist, art, ethnographic) and national exhibitions in each countries.  

The Russian Empire was a permanent participant of World exhibition. În the international stage government with business presented investment projects. The image, that this team created, depicted the view on national concept. The image repeated on national exhibitions, which organized every 4 year in Moscow, Saint-Petersburg and by instance in Nizhny Novgorod. 
Exhibition's experience in native science is analyzing in target ways. There is many detailed studies about art (V.V. Stasov), architecture (U.A. Nikitin),  museum science (A.I. Mihailovskaya), legislation (U.J. Ribakov) and economy (M.K. Rojkova). But there isn't the research about communication between organizer and participant. The focus of current research is on evaluating an efficacy of exhibition as communicating instrument in imperial space. 

As stated earlier the methodologist frame is constructivism, particularly the approach of Eric Hobsbawm.  The account's  analysis is based on several types of documents: the official state sources, the presentation volumes and the printing press. 
The official state sources represents "Report of the Commissioner-General of Russian Exposition in the World Exhibition in Paris in 1900,  the collection of legislation, «Exposition universelle internationale de 1900 ? Paris: extraits des actes organiques concernant les relations des d?l?gu?s des nations ?trang?res avec la direction g?n?rale de l'exposition», the official  catalogue of World Paris Exhibition in 1900 «Catalogue G?n?ral Officiel» (20 volumes), the official  catalogues of Art and industry exhibition in Nizhny Novgorod in 1896 (19 volumes). The presentation volumes present  illustrated catalogue «Russia World Paris Exhibition in 1900», guidebooks in Paris and in Nizhny Novgorod. And in the last the printing press represents  «Vestnik of foreign literature»,  «Odessa Vedomosti»,  «Figaro».  
As we can see accounts are different by their types of information, by amount of data and by languages. Therefore the it will be necessary to find archetypical code of social groups and to build them on caterpillar's dominant of constructivist analysis of sources. Findings could be use in several levels of the paper. In the final chapter it would be evaluate archival documents about Permian buissnesman P.P. Kalinin and M.M. Kamchatove. The regional case will be complement the results of the study. 

As a result in the paper should be construct the image of the Russian businessmen in the end of XIXth century. This character was exported in European and inside Russian territory.  Representation of this estate could illustrate of consistent implementation of the Russian national project of the Empire in second half of nineteen century. Comprehensive image of world and national ehibition as a communicational part of imperial space forms a new view to the unique event in the of XIX century. 

In the paper it was realized comprehensive analysis of foreign and national Russian exhibitions from a position of constructivist theory of nation making. This approach provided the opportunity to evaluate the communicational importance of big events. There were the place for communication between government and business. Business, as a pioneer of progress in the country, was drawn to participation in exhibitions not only to successful realization of investment project, but also to inclusion in imperial space and to popularization of the Russian national project inside and abroad.   The entrepreneur of each region of the Russian Empire should be feeling himself as a part of big country not only through his business, but also through popular image, which was translated to European territory. 	