The history of relations between the state and the church is described in a lot of research. However, not many studies related to regional specifics and often viewed from the perspective of believers. This study allows us to understand the mechanisms and methods of social control in terms of de-Stalinization.

The aim of this research is to compare the political campaigns Stalin and Khrushchev, the identification of the mechanisms and methods of implementation in the Molotov region, as well as track changes in technology campaign. Objectives of my research: 1. Consider the problem of historiography, 2. Identify the steps and technology of anti-religious campaign in the Molotov region 3. Make sure the results of the anti-religious campaign 

The practical result will be description of the mechanism of realization of the political campaign in the Soviet Union Delimitations of the study. The research is devoted to the study of political campaign period of thaw. Also in the study examines the other political campaigns in the Soviet Union. The main objective is to identify mechanisms for the implementation of the same political campaign at different times and society's response to the activities of the state. 

Definitions of key terms. The key term of the research is political campaign. The research  of  the political campaign is seen as a mechanism of ideological propaganda of the state.

The specifics of any political campaign - its phasing. In this study, we will use up the campaign proposed in the article "Beyond the slogans practices to adapt to political campaigns in the 1945-1953 "
The author divides the campaign activities into the following stages:
1. Ideological promise through the central press
2. Organizational stage
3. The mobilization of the masses
4. The implementation of the goals and objectives of the campaign
5. Report on successes

Antireligious campaign can be considered in terms of data and steps to trace whether the anti-religious campaign is effective in the era of the thaw, or if the state is weakened influence in any field, it automatically goes on and no other. In 1954, after the release of the document of the Central Committee "On the major shortcomings in the scientific atheist propaganda and measures to improve it," all the decision points have been duplicated and immediately taken to the execution of the Party organizations. More attention was given to work with the media. In a large number of papers have been published notes and articles on the theme of anti-religious propaganda and agitation.
   
1. Ideological promise through the central press. After the release of the document to strengthen the anti-religious campaign, all decisions were duplicated, and immediately taken to the execution of the Party organizations. Party organizations must urgently intensify scientific and atheistic propaganda.
2. Organizational stage. The period when the state is waiting for a positive response to the citizen’s campaign.  Implementation of the decision on the region government gave the order to deploy to the district committees and grassroots organizations mobilized units to work with the press.
3. The mobilization of the masses. The Molotov region at the beginning of the campaign launched active scientific atheistic propaganda. The number of lectures on atheistic themes, closed religious schools and seminaries. The church lacked people to work.
4. The implementation of the goals and objectives of the campaign. The reaction of the population to the atheistic propaganda. Demonstrative dismissal for prayer or wedding.
5. Report on successes. Create reports and various documents about the conduct of atheist campaign in the region. The report should reflect the quantitative and qualitative indicators. The main part of the report is the point which describes the "future plans". What else needs to be done and in what time frame. The report should describe the phased plan for scientific and atheistic lectures in schools and other educational institutions. The report was a symbol of the work done in the Soviet Union. 

The period of 1954-1962 years in the history of relations between the state and the church is less studied in comparison with the period of the reign of Stalin. The study, which would be devoted to this issue was not until the early 1990s.

The first of these works was the study of church historian D. Pospelovsky "Russian Orthodox Church in the XX century". In his study, he relies on the emigre journals, self-published documents. Analyzing the era of Khrushchev's "persecution" of the Church, he emphasizes the dramatic events of that time. He describes the damage that caused the state to churches and monasteries. The main reason for the anti-religious campaign Pospelovsky believes that in the post-war years, the church life began to gain momentum again. Thus - it was a challenge to the new state ideology. He also speaks of the causes of the weakening of anti-religious campaign and focuses on the fact that the state has received the opposite effect, strengthening the control of church life. The consequence of this was that the religious life began to take an illegal form, which in turn are dangerous for the state. Analyzing unpublished sources, the author tried to find the causes and effects antireligious campaign.

One of the most important works on the theme of relations between state and church in the 40-60-years is the monograph M.V. Shkarovsky "Russian Orthodox Church under Stalin and Khrushchev." Shkarovsky describes the post-war period as one of the most problematic for the existence of the Russian Orthodox Church in the country. Attempts by the state to quickly eradicate the religious problem in the country, have led to an increase in conflicts between the state and the church. The main objective of his study, the author considers the definition of the factors affecting the state religious policy.

The problem of relations between the state and the church were engaged in such authors as Silencing A.L. In his articles "The public reaction to the anti-religious campaign in the Kama area in 1954" and the anti-religious campaign in 1954 Mobilization of practice and everyday life, "the author describes the mechanisms of implementation of the anti-religious campaign in the field of Molotov, who and how to respond to a campaign, and how trying to fight it. Much attention is paid to the Protestant communities. In his article, the author focuses on the fact that the main mechanism of implementation was scientific atheistic propaganda in schools, and the main compiler of atheistic ideas were the media.

The study is based on the principle of historicism, which allows us to consider the phenomenon in its development, to understand, to interpret correctly and to identify those features that are not confined to the past but also the present and the future.

Since this work is devoted to the study anti-religion campaign in the «Thaw» period, the study is not possible without communication with other disciplines. In particular, it has been used statistical analysis. 

The basis of the study is a comprehensive critical analysis of the sources. The comparative-historical method applies to explain the meaning of relationship between state and church. Relations between the State and the Church during the reign of Stalin and Khrushchev were described in terms of critical analysis. 

The main expected result of this study is to describe the mechanisms of implementation of the anti-religious campaign in the period of thaw in the Perm region. 

Based on the analysis of archival documents Perm Archive of Contemporary History - records, reports and certificates on the status of the anti-religious campaign in the Molotov region can draw the following conclusions: One of the main directions of the campaign was the transformation of the church management. This was reflected in the strengthening of control over the church. Now, the church became a private organization, it was necessary to pay taxes, and the sacred ministers were set wages. Thus, it should change the hierarchy and structure of religious communities. A large number of seats won in the "correct" the deputies, who were soft on the implementation of reforms in the state. The struggle against religion took place in the context of a powerful wave of scientific atheistic propaganda in schools.

In the study, it was found that, despite the strengthening of control over the church, the people still had the loyalty to the church. The statistics confirm that the number of believers - is not reduced, the religious practice - went "underground", the number of weddings and baptisms also not reduced. Thus, the strengthening of control over the church had power to unintended consequences - an increase of illegal practices religion and the possibility of criminalization of this part of public life. This conflicted with the policy of rejection of terror as the main instrument of social control.

The campaign broke developed relations after the war between the state and the church, thus provoking the emergence of illegal religious organizations.Campaign as a technology of power did not give the previous results in the new environment. Subsequently, the state change of control over the religious, going from the method to the campaigns of systematic and long-term work with the new generation through educational institutions.Trying to campaign Stalinist methods in this period did not give the previous results. And I was forced to go to the planned work.            