It is possible to set several questions to define the problematic of the paper:
How can the memory politics of the Second World War be characterized in Ukraine and Belarus?
Which institutes form historical politics and influence on educational space and history teaching in Ukraine and Belarus?

How have been the images of World War II formed in the school textbooks of Ukraine and Belarus?
Do the stability / fluctuations of the images in the educational spaces give rise to public discussions in Ukraine and Belarus?
This framework (2018 – 2020) provides an opportunity to analyze the changes in the images of the Second World War, depending on the dramatic shift in the political situation in Ukraine (war in Donbas). It is no accident that the author compares the Ukrainian experience and the Belarusian one: both states were part of the USSR, the elite of both states participated in the decision-making of the Soviet state. In addition, it was the Ukrainian and Belarus SSR that suffered more from the Second World War than other Soviet republics, and the memory of this event is one of the key in national identity. Moreover, Belarusians and Ukrainians, as well as the ethnically different population of the Soviet republics, absorbed the Soviet narrative about the Second World War. Despite the proximity of cultures and the economic dependence of countries on Russia in the post-Soviet period, we can observe completely different strategies for remembering the Second World War.

The purpose of the study is to identify the images of the Second World War in modern textbooks of Ukraine and Belarus, to examine the trends in the development of different narratives in school education. 
The research objectives are following:

To identify the experience of historiography and methodology, important for understanding the research problems.
Explore the Ukrainian case and the Belarusian case separately. How could the politics of memory be described? How does the educational process work at schools? What is the role of the war in the textbooks? How much time should be dedicated for studying the war at school, does it depend on the level of the History course? What are the narratives about the Second World War constructed there? Are there any activities of civil societies on the topic? 
To compare the cases.
 
Sources of the study:
High School textbooks of History;
educational standards with regard to the National Exams;
guidelines and recommendations for teachers in conducting lessons on the Second World War.

Due to the focus on the politics of memory, there should be accepted that the work does not describe the collective memory about the war by itself. Moreover, the educational spaces are not limited by the governmental standards and the textbooks approved by the Ministries of Education and Science, particularly in Ukraine, where is more freedom and independence from the capital and a lot of NGO-s can make their own textbooks, programs of teaching history, create seminars for teachers and school students as well. Thus, it is worth noting that we the paper could not cover all such practices, nevertheless they are taken as examples of other mnemonic actors.

Although historiography provide us with lots of literature on the topic of politics of memory, historical memory about the war in both countries, there is still no such a comparative research based on the textbooks, educational standards and educational initiatives from civil societies.

The pillar of the contemporary memory studies is the concept of “collective memory” suggested by Maurice Halbwachs (Halbwachs, 1992). For understanding the creation of national consciousness, it is considered that the processes of national formation through the creation of writing in national languages, described in the classic work of Benedict Anderson "Imagined Communities" (Benedict, 2006). Now there are abundance of literature on this topic, including highly elaborated theme of the politics of memory. Another classical work, written as the criticism to narrations of historians is the paper of Hayden White (White, 1875), supplying this paper with technique of historical narrative perception. As the textbooks are written by professional historians, it is essential to comprehend the possibilities of the historical narration as a specific art of past event`s explanation, White observed the historical works of the nineteenth century, though. White suggests reading any historical narratives with the classification of the given levels of conceptualization (type of story/modes of emplotment, mode of argument, mode of ideological implication). 

Analyzing textbooks, we should also refer to experience of the exhibition Different wars (Different Wars, 2017). Prepared by several historical NGO-s, the exhibition reveals the differences in the description and perception of the Second world war in modern school textbooks in Germany, Lithuania, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic and Russia. Historians, civil society activists, and history teachers from the six countries represented participated in the creation of the exhibition. The main goal is to look at the description of tragic events of the past, sometimes undesirable "complex" stories such as the German-Soviet Treaty, the Holocaust and the avoided aspects, representing the responsibilities for some events of the past like the participation of locals in the Holocaust etc. 

Another valuable methodology is one, which lets to work with the politics of memory and mnemonic actors (Kubik and Bernhard, 2014, 7–34). Although the latter conceptualizes the memory regimes and mnemonic actors as key notions for the field, comprehends the factors influencing the choices of mnemonic actors and the emergence of memory regimes, the authors` survey can be perfectly applied to democratic regimes rather than for authoritarian as Lukashenko. Moreover, Ukraine is also seemed like authoritarian, however, there have been since a lot of changes, that the work could not consider. 

The most applicative terms for our survey are found in recently published work of Aleida Assmann (Ассман, 2019). Assmann lets to understand the message of the governments to the society: how and what they should remember or forget. Use of the Aleida Assmann`s theory supports the paper with such terms as canon and archive, the first one defines the borders of societal ideals and orienteers in the past, accepted as values of the group or nation. On the other hand, the archive works for preservation of what is not as much of public interest but rather of scientific or professional one. Borders between canon and archive are definitely very fragile, as there is no line between remembrance and forgetting, which are always intermingling and changing. We directly use these terms for work with educational standards. They become obviously clear due to chronological or comparative study of the sources.

We also consider another large group of literature devoted to historical events of itself, deepen our knowledge of the Second World War on the territories of the Soviet Belarus and Ukraine (Timothy, 2010; Rudling, 2011; Rudling, 2013). The corpus of literature dedicated to studying Ukrainian politics of memory consists not only by Ukrainians historians, many of them affiliated with European and American universities (Yekelchyk, 2015; Portnov, 2016; Portnov, 2017; Fedor, Kangaspuro, Lassila, Zhurzhenko, 2017; Касьянов, 2018), the same is fair for investigations about Belarus (Marples, 2014; Братачкин, 2015; Браточкин, 2016; Браточкин, 2017; Rudling, 2017). 

After reading the literature about the politics of memory in both countries we conduct the survey of educational standards for National Exams, taking them respectively to comprehend any changes which could have been in the memory politics. After that there is process of finding textbooks, simplified by the digital platforms due to the Ministries of Education and Science in both countries. Then we divide the textbooks into several groups, as there many levels of studying History at High school (the national/the integral/the world and either common or advanced simultaneously). Then we read the chapters devoted to the Second World War and  compare the narratives between each other and with the standard too, seeking for repetitions, author`s deviations, explanations of hard topics (the Soviet-German Treaty, annexations of eastern Poland by Belarusian and Ukrainian SSR, annexation of Romania by Ukrainian SSR, Volyn tragedy 1943-1944, attitude to the soviet government and their tactics in the war, the Holocaust, national movement inside the war, the collaboration and its explanation, ostarbeiters etc.). The pantheon of heroes is also in focus of attention of the paper, as it is a highlighter of the narrative itself. After this exploration, there should be observation of the alternative actors and their educational products in Ukraine and Belarus.     

As we have not finished reading the sources, there is no possibility to create conclusion of a whole investigation, however as a premature result the dramatic change of canon in 2018 in Ukraine and a sharp difference between it and Belarus one should be mentioned. 
Conclusion

Now the draft of research has been completed, and the author is working on with sources, making efforts to apply content analysis for Ukrainian and Belarusian school textbooks, as there is abundance of materials.