The question of identifying territorial identity is one of most important things of modern development of Russia. In the last few years there has been a growing interest in this problem. Researches of identity are conducted in a set of regions of Russia. It is especially important for Perm and the Perm region. The problem of definition and development of cultural identity of the city of Perm is the first problem in strategy of development for the city of Perm. Understanding the cultural field of the local population is an important element of a successful economy. Brand territory is possible to build only on the basis of local identity. That construction influences political, economic and cultural development of a region. Brand territory solves such problems as brain drain, deficiency investment appeal, development of small business and tourism. There are a lot of territorial parts in Perm region and one of them is Suksun’s region. The current research is focused on the problem of region identity of Suksun’s population.

The aforesaid considerations raise a general research problem, which is as follows: what are crossing of cultural symbols and patterns identity of inhabitants of regions of Russia during the Post-Soviet period contains? What is the region identity of examples on the local experience?
     
With that being said, the purpose of this research is to construct region identity in the period of modern social catastrophe on the example of Suksun. 
     
In order to achieve the proposed aim, it is necessary to complete the following tasks: 
1. To consider a figure of the Soviet person during an era of modern social catastrophe and images of new society in social, political and cultural dimensions.
2. To describe the conflict field of social identities and to consider influence of the authority upon it on cases from modern local history.
3. To construct Suksun’s regional identity to use the method of Oral History and evaluate the role of local history in that construct.
     
The issue under question plays a vital role in modern science. The results will be able to use for conformity between policies of local authorities and endorsement or disagreement of that by cultural background of local population. 

The research is devoted to the social identity so the main question is linked to the concept of cultural references. The current research is focused on the problem of modern field of social identities. Then in research will be construct the local region identity on the case of Suksun.

The range of literature that contain information about the problem is quite wide. To solve this problem, many researchers have proposed various methods of consideration of question social catastrophe. The most useful in this case approach to this issue has been proposed by Oleg Leibovich. He is doctor of historical sciences, head of department of cultural sciences and philosophy in Perm State Institute of Art and Culture. 

Leibovich is ideologist of the concept of modernization. The theory of modernization was the answer for the crisis of humanitarian science in XX century. During a lot of years the pillar of social and economic philosophy was the theory of Karl Marx. The theory of formations simplified diverse social cooperation to economic reasons. But development of social science leads to changes in understanding of complex social relationships. Nowadays in the theory of modernization acts and senses in the difficult contests during long period of time considers cultural aspects. Process of changes is implemented in activity of the people making history in compliances with the interests rooting in conditions of their life, vision of the future and the mastered values and behavior models, what is cultural tradition which value was accented by Max Weber. The initial fragments of the concept of modernization concerned first of all the social conflicts in the society enduring change of economic, political and cultural structures.
     
In the main idea the concept of modernization describes transition state of society from traditional to modern in the context of its internal contradictions. It is possible to understand modernization only in the context of a dichotomy "traditional – modern" society. The key is the moment of transition from traditional to modern.
     
And social catastrophe in this concept is the period of crisis and regress in cultural, politic and economic spheres. After the USSR fell apart the Russian Federation and CIS countries the “step back” was took. This is about traditional institutes lose the legitimacy and government try to find new ways to do, economical elites became, the population need to understand how to live in another world. 
     
All together break into the capitalist race with new rules. The way to success has changed, the representation of person has changed. People try to use western patterns in its meaning. The part of Alexey’s Yurcak research is focused on the problem of image of western country by soviet people. «Zagranitsa lay at the intersection of these two attitudes toward the wider world, signifying an imaginary place that was simultaneously knowable and unattainable, tangible and abstract, mundane and exotic. This concept was disconnected from any “real” abroad and located in some unspecified place—over there (tam), with them (u nikh), as opposed to with us (u nas)—and although references to it were ubiquitous, its real existence became dubious» (Yurchak, 2006, p.296). Nowadays the measure of freedom is money and because of changing identities is changing too. People try to take some meaning from the west or east but meaning be able to project another interpretation.  
     
The new spaces appeared. The local space where people live and the global space where another cities and countries are. In USSR cities were include into single entity but now every city need to fight for development. Local identity became an important tool to contain brain drain and the image of city which based on identity attract people and investments. 
     
The most understandable approach to identity has been proposed by Sigmund Bauman. He wrote a lot about identity but here is clear explanation to enter this question: «"We" are group to which I belong. I well understand what occurs in group and as I understand it, I know how to me to work further, I feel confident like home. The group is, so to speak, my natural environment, the place where I like to be and where I come back with sense of relief. "They", on the contrary, is that group to which I cannot or I do not want to belong. My idea of the events in it very vaguely and sketchy, I badly understand her behavior therefore its actions for me are mostly unpredictable and frighten off»(Bauman, 2001, p.64). In this way is understand that group with has common identity has common lines, symbols, body of specific knowledge. And the population of some town is shaping around specific knowledge about this region. This is knowledge which they keep and broadcast. Local elite or governance are able to build brand of territory on this common knowledge. 
     
In modern world of information revolution people always being on the field of fighting identities. And today people can “bye a ticket” in desirable identity. For example if you want to belong to American and to join that cultural tradition you can take a citizenship or just bye an iPhone or T-shirt with image of Stars and Stripes. 
     
An important role of the regional identity own history background of territory and common special features. From current centuries national identity has been built on history and language. What about history? How history help to keep local community? Researchers Asmann and Halbwachs have demonstrated that in their researches. «The history in the 19th century in many respects promoted formation of collective identity. That generated  and strengthened feeling of collective accessory»(Asmann, 2004, p.122). But history is not a memory. Asmann wrote «"memory" and "history" are far "from being synonyms. Memory is always an urgent phenomenon, the endured communication with the eternal present. The history is a representation of the past. Memory places reminiscence in sacral space. The history expels reminiscence from there. Memory is generated by that social group which she rallies»(Asmann, 2004, p.124). For a long time historical memory serve the main part of big human consolidation. Today every person has a lot more identities then 150 years ago. But is history still stay one of the most important figures of collective memory in one territory? I raised this question in a chapter three. 
  
Complex of Methods which will use in this research named oral history. The main sources of that approach are interweaves. All oral sources contain inner world of the person, its value, tradition, stereotypes, fears, hopes and allow looking for the answer to a question of features of the presentation of identity. The conversation is a type of an informal interview. In a broad sense a conversation in advance set subject. In this conversation the respondent and the interviewer act as full participants of dialogue. 

The conversations will be with representative of local elite. In the theory of modernization idea stated in dissemination of cultural aspects from elite to public. Professor Leibovich argues that distribution of certain standards of socially important behavior happens from top to down by means of material and intellectual means. Things, were originally at the disposal of elite, or it invented. The motives inducing elite to work thus root in its interests refracted through the culture apprehended (Leibovich, 1996, p.30). If you want to know temperature of your body you put thermometer in one place. Society is the same construct. If you want to know about some question on the cultural level you need to know situation in elite.

Before the conversation the thorough examination is of topic of the problem. Before the writing a guide needs to do some work. To identify about five main topics this needs for the research. Then in every topic to mark from three to five questions. That will be basis of the guide of interview.


Social disaster accepts organization. The Soviet identity passes to new, imagined by society by means of other symbols. The person is a member of various identity: I am in an inner circle, I am in the city or the village, I am in the world.

The political system of the state changed. The new strategy of action for achievement of "success" became available to the person. The image of the successful person is transformed. Media, the western popular culture participate in formation of a new image. 
     
At the beginning of XX in the new social structure is formed. Economic achievements in their simple monetary form become a key factor of stratification. Key positions in new political institutes are taken by people with money or the cultures borrowing economism at businessmen.
     
Citizens master economic culture as consumer. They reproduce prestigious consumer strategy at the household level. Trips to the west as a new form of freedom for middle class. The Post-Soviet person masters new symbols, filling them with "special" sense. The fact of receiving the higher education is considered an obligatory part on the way to success. The structure of consumer goods as an important symbol of definition of by the member of this or that step of hierarchy of society extends.
     
Money is perceived as freedom marker outside from work. The person fills the local space with artifacts owing to opportunities, tries to join global. The sphere of tourism grows. The person realizes himself a part of the global world, strives for success. The residence becomes one of success markers. Emergence of global measurement increases quantity of identity and forms the conflicts. Where (image) I live and where I want to live.
     
Many public agents realize that their region needs to be built in a federal or world context. To construct an image of the city (village). In territorial societies the policy of branding of the territory is implemented by the governance. In Perm an attempt to build in the city a "world" context (or at least federal) in popular perception was made. The Perm cultural project did not find a response from population, the business environment and many public agents.
     
Local authorities or representatives of local elite try to create images of the territories. "Dobryanka – the capital of kindness" as an example. By means of festivals or goods of local production of the territory try to find communication with global. 
     
Suksun region is at a design stage of similar policy. On the basis of the local enterprises, rich recreational and natural resources the local government plans to realize the "Suksun District — the Territory of Health" project. 

In this case the history is used as the element allowing carrying logicality of similar development of the territory to the public. Importance to use of historical artifacts for creation of the general historical memory of the population only should be understood.