Introduction
Background. The problem of legal regulation of the legal status of various categories of the self-employed is considered as one of the most controversial issues in civil and labour law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: on the one hand, the self-employed as a part of shadow economy. On the other hand, the self-employed as а part of legal employment but that need to have legal regulation. Both of these approaches have the same subjects in common, but their main difference is the presence or absence of legal regulation. 
Self-employment is a phenomenon in science and in the life of society, therefore, it needs to be well investigated and the further establishment and development of the institution will contribute to reduce unemployment and to increase the flexibility of the labour market, which as a result will lead to the stability of the economy in the country.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: the necessity to consider the legal status of various categories of the self-employed, depending on the subject in question and the distinctive features of each category. This all determines the purpose of the research. In conformity with the purpose of the study the research project objectives are: 
To expand the concept of self-employment, justify its basic forms;
To consider ways of development and formation of self-employment in the Russian Federation; 
To analyze the main consequences of innovations in civil, labour and tax law of the Russian Federation;
To investigate the legal status of the individual entrepreneur as self-employed;
To consider the legal status of an individual registered as self-employed;
To conduct a comparative analysis of the regulation of the legal status of the self-employed in the law of the Russian Federation and in the law of foreign countries.
Delimitations of the Study. The research project is primarily focused on the analysis of theoretical foundations and laws in the field of the legal status of the self-employed, which will determine the general principles of the institution of self-employment. This is determined by the fact that in different countries there are different approaches to the legal status of the self-employed. In particular, such approaches are different not only between Asian countries and the European Union, but also within Europe itself. Moreover, the delimitation of the study is the absence of a unified approach to the position of self-employment to make a comprehensive comparative analysis.
Professional Significance. The scientific novelty of the study is that the paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the institution of self-employment aimed at generalizing disparate material. In the course of the study, conflicts of civil, labour and tax law were identified, which may affect the effectiveness of protecting the rights of the self-employed. In addition, the paper presents foundations aimed at improving the legal status of the self-employed and the concept of self-employment is derived, which can determine the forms of self-employment and the types of activities related to it.
Literature review
A significant number of Russian and foreign researchers have devoted their works to the issues raised in the research. More and more researchers in the field of jurisprudence are addressing issues of the current state of the legal status of the self-employed. The general framework of the research is the formulation of the concept of self-employment, determination of the basic rights and obligations of the self-employed as well as the comparison of the legal status of the self-employed in Russia and foreign countries to establish the main features of the legal status of the self-employed in Russia. 
Martha Alter Chen, Roopa Madhav and Kamala Sankaran studied the issues of self-employment in India. There, as in many countries, they recognized the significance of paying attention to the most vulnerable sections of the population. Therefore, several states of the country put forward the idea of ​​creating charitable foundations to promote health programs and future pensions for the self-employed. But the rules and restrictions of these programs are not for all categories of the self-employed. Therefore, the authors argued that there is the need for reforms that expand the possibilities of the self-employed in conducting legal activities. At the same time the researchers argued that as long as there is an idea in the minds of the population and the government that self-employment is illegal or it is a criminal activity, it will be impossible to overcome the existing problems of providing people with conditions of leaving the shadow economy.
Furthermore, the issues of self-employment for people with disabilities are discussed in the study by Alex Maritz and Richard Laferriere. Statistics show that among the self-employed there are more people with disabilities than people without such problems. This is because people want to avoid actual and possible discrimination in employment. The authors argued that in Australia there is already a solid foundation for supporting people using possible opportunities. The state organizes programs for the development of small business. However, this is often not enough because there are social and financial barriers. The authors propose to increase awareness about self-employment and small business ownership among people with disabilities. Researchers suggest reducing the barriers with financial support and with information on how to get and find this support.
Moreover, Ruth Uwaifo Oyelere and Willie Belton study the influence of the level of self-employment in developed and developing countries on the USA. The authors argued that immigrants from developing countries face completely different economic institutions in their countries. In addition, economic activity in developed countries is more formal. Consequently, institutional and developmental similarities are an important driving force for immigrants from developed countries. In addition, it is important to point out that self-employment and business are synonymous for developed countries but completely different for developing countries.
Yu.N. Nesterenko and E.A. Protasova explore this topic by using general scientific methods. They assume that the formation of self-employment is not the temporary but a consonant objective process resulting in changes in the nature of economic relations. Therefore, it should be recognized that the activities of the self-employed make a significant contribution to the development of competition and the growth of labour productivity. The researchers believe that it is necessary to establish the legal status of the self-employed. In addition, it is significant to create a program for the development of self-employment in the country, which will present solutions both practical and strategic.
Lesovskaya’s research devoted to the problem of lack of the voluntary motivation among the self-employed to legalize their activities. The author assumes that in order to get out of this situation mutual trust between the self-employed and the government as well as social justice are necessary. Therefore, it is necessary to establish measures to improve interaction with the self-employed. In the paper the author gives some ways to solve the existing problem. Firstly, the establishment of the expanded definition of a self-employed person. Secondly, it is the establishment of a long-term plan of improving the legal status of the self-employed. Therefore, the author indicates that the government should try to create enabling environment for the self-employed. However, at the same time it will be advisable to take some coercive measures. For example, special government and municipal programs which will be aimed at identifying the unemployed and controlling the number of unregistered self-employed which may contribute to their self-registration. 
The fundamental research by O. Yu. Patlasov, T.A. Azatbek and D.T. Baitenizov concentrates on the analysis of self-employment in Kazakhstan as well as the conditions and methods of forming its new model. The authors argued that the number of the self-employed in the Republic of Kazakhstan is high compared to the European countries. The researchers assume that it is because the country has developed agriculture and the majority of the self-employed are in this industry. On the other hand, scientists argued that self-employment is a way out of poverty. Most of the citizens perceive self-employment as a part of shadow economy whose activity is not aimed at the development but at survival.
In his article Steven F. Hipple emphasizes that self-employment has always gradually developed in the United States and today the government is aware of the powerful influence of the institution of self-employment. Therefore, in every possible way they are trying to maintain the activity of self-employment in the country. The research examines some demographic trends. As in most countries, the highest level of self-employment is observed among older people (65 years and older) compared to young people. The author emphasizes that older people occupy about 18% of the self-employed, while the proportion of young people is much lower: 16-19 (1,6%), 20-24 (2,1%). Steven F. Hipple argued that if you imagine the average self-employed in the United States, then this will be a middle-aged white man and above, most likely having an education above high school.
Ingemar Johansson Sevä, Stig Vinberg, Mikael Nordenmark and Mattias Strandh studied the differences between categories of the self-employed in Europe. The authors argued that the level of job satisfaction is higher between the self-employed compared to regular employees. But at the same time the level of life satisfaction between the self-employed who have other employees and the self-employed who work by themselves can be different as well. Moreover, the life satisfaction for the self-employed with or without employees can be different for women, while it does not have a strong difference among men. The researchers emphasize that economic growth influences the self-employed more than regular employees.
The paper by Simone Chlosta, Holger Patzelt, Sabine B. Klein and Christian Dormann is devoted examining the influence of parental model and the decision to become the self-employed. The research shows that the atmosphere in families is a strong motivator for career decision. It has the same effect with the maternal, paternal and parental models. The authors emphasize that this effect depends on individual personality and it has stronger impact on people who do not have enough experience. The paper shows that the decision of being the self-employed can be made by children in families with different dynamics such as parental authority or family conflict or with supportive parents. The parental business can also lead to family conflict or children’s motivator to be the self-employed.
Mortality differences between the self-employed and regular employees were studied by Susanna Toivanen, Rosane Härter Griep, Christin Mellner, Stig Vinberg and Sandra Eloranta. In their research the authors emphasize that self-employment has become a worldwide priority. However, the self-employed are still a neglected group which does not have enough opportunities for health safety and support. The authors argued that on the one hand, the self-employed have higher level of life and job satisfaction. But on the other hand, this activity can be stressful and energy-intensive for the self-employed and for their spouses. Nevertheless, statistic shows that mortality from suicide is lower among the self-employed compared to regular employees. But mortality between the self-employed is different across industries and genders. Even if mortality is lower between the self-employed, the authors argued that the research shows that in few industries the level of mortality is higher among the self-employed, especially among women in welfare industry. 
Methods
In this part of the project proposal the methods, which will be used in conducting the research, are explained. The research methodology was based on the following methods: method of systematic and comparative analysis, deduction method, historical-legal method and formal-legal method. The method of systematic and comparative analysis is used to consider the legal status of the self-employed as a set of interrelated elements that reflect the main features and characteristics of this category, as well as to compare the legal status of the self-employed with other categories of the employed population in the Russian Federation and foreign countries according to demographic, social and other parameters. 
In addition, a formal-legal method is used to analyze and systematize the main features and forms of self-employment. The study also uses the historical-legal method for analyzing and comparing past versions of legislation, as well as comparing existing legislation with outdating legislation acts submitted for consideration. As for the deduction method, it will be used throughout the study. The paper will go from the general characteristics of the institution as a whole to its individual features and characteristics, from the general characteristics of the legal status of the self-employed in the Russian Federation to the determination of the status of individual categories of the self-employed.
Results anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of the legal status of the self-employed and the data on the judicial practice of foreign countries for the last decade shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by Russian and foreign researchers reveals that among countries the legal status of the self-employed was considered to be different. It means that researchers have different views on the subject under question. They regard it as the result of a development gap that influences the amount of rights of the self-employed. I infer that the problem of the legal status of the self-employed should be considered as one of the most actual in self-employment. This gives the perspective of the future discussions and researches on this topic. Achieved outcomes, grounded on scientific studies, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate future legislative consolidation. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of law enforcement. The data is presented by the doctrine of the USA, Asian countries and European countries for the last decade. It shows that a lack of regulation of the legal status of the self-employed is discussed in nearly all countries, but only few of them have a full regulation. 
All this determines the solution of the problem of the legal status of the self-employed. It plays a fundamental role in national and international jurisdictions and contributes greatly to law enforcement. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that there is one main goal in reforming the federal legislation and legislation at the regional level to introduce the legal status of the self-employed into Russian legislation. This does not follow from previous researches due to the absence of the concept in law and actual information among Russian researchers. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of the form and common foundations of self-employment because it will determine the categories of the self-employed, their rights and obligations and main activities. 
The findings are essential for law theory and legal practice.  The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for law and economy learners to differentiate definitions of an employed and a self-employed, to use proper terminology. As far as the legal status of the self-employed is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analysing the latest developments in tax law. The analysis revealed two types of the self-employed. Some of them are satisfied with the absence of taxation while others want to get the legal status for engaging in their activities. Therefore, statistic shows that the latest innovations have become an important step for the self-employed.
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of using this research for practical purposes. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to the definition of the self-employment and its place in the system of institutions of the state and society. Since the project focuses mainly on a study of judicial practice and relevant literature review, it will follow descriptive and evaluative research designs built on qualitative methods.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of the institution of self-employment for further study of the legal status of the self-employed as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
