Introduction
Background. The problem of legal regulation of the bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case of a citizen is relevant in Russian law. The growth of crisis phenomena in Russian economy leads to an increase in the number of credit obligations, as well as taxes and fees obligations among citizens that leads to a rise in demand for the institution of consumer insolvency both among creditors and among debtors themselves. The demand of consumer bankruptcy institution does not entail the improvement of its legislative regulation. Only part 7 of an article 213.26 of the Bankruptcy Law is devoted to the problem of a family property distribution in a bankruptcy case, while practical problems related to this issue are resolved through the formation of a single judicial practice on a specific issue.
Due to the novelty of an individual bankruptcy institution, the knowledge degree of the problem is small. 
The paper by P.M. Morhat is devoted to the formation of judicial practice in disputes on the exclusion of the only suitable housing for living. E.M. Smirnova analyzes the grounds for the exclusion of property from the bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case. The problem of legal regulating of the joint bankruptcy institution is reflected in the articles of D.A. Danilova, A.G. Novostrueva. and K.A. Karacheva.
Problem Statement. This research aims to study legal regulation of the bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case of a citizen in Russian law. In conformity with the purpose of the study the research project objectives are: 
1. to define the concept of the bankruptcy estate in the bankruptcy case of a citizen;
2. to reveal the legal aspects of the bankruptcy estate formation in a bankruptcy case;
3. to investigate the forms of the bankruptcy estate realization in a bankruptcy case;
4. to consider the general provisions on the distribution of property of a bankrupt citizen
5. to consider the regime of property under the spouses responsibility for obligations during the insolvency (bankruptcy);
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the nature of a bankruptcy estate as an institution of a citizen’s insolvency. This determines some difficulties in an interpretation of various approaches to the concept of a bankruptcy estate and a kind of legislation should be applicable to property and liability relations of citizens. In particular, such approaches are different not only in Russian law but also in American legal system. Finally, the last delimitation is connected with the features of spouses’ assets insolvency regulation.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first tasks to deal with is to analyze the concept of a bankruptcy estate in order to differentiate commonalities and differences in approaches of general civil and special bankruptcy legislation of the institution above. This will allow to analyze the key factors of a legal regulation of the bankruptcy estate and develop a criteria for its identification and evaluation. To attain the goal set it will be extremely worthwhile to analyze the procedures of a formation, realization and distribution of the bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case of a citizen.  
Definitions of Key Terms. «Bankruptcy (Insolvency)» is  the debtor’s inability to fully satisfy the creditors' claims for monetary obligations, for the payment of severance pay and (or) for the remuneration of persons working or working under an employment contract, and (or) to fulfill the obligation to pay mandatory payments recognized by the commercial court.
«Debtor» is a citizen or an individual entrepreneur, or a legal entity, who were unable to satisfy the creditors' claims for monetary obligations, on the payment of severance pay and (or) on the remuneration of persons working or working under an employment contract, and (or) to fulfill the obligation to payment of mandatory payments within the period established by the Bankruptcy Law. 
Literature review
The problem of legal regulation of the bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case of a citizen is primarily practical. Nevertheless, a significant number of Russian and foreign researchers have devoted their works to the issues raised in the research. Both Russian and foreign researchers focus on the problem of protecting the property rights of the bankrupt’s spouse. The issues of improvement of the mechanisms for identifying the debtor's property included in the bankruptcy estate and the procedure of joint bankruptcy are also relevant among the researchers.
The purpose of the work by Yu.S. Kharitonova is the identification of contradictions between the rules on the status of spouses’ property in a bankruptcy legislation and the norms of family law on spouses’ liability for their debts. Yu.S. Kharitonova uses the comparative legal method comparing the general civil and special bankruptcy regulation of debtor’s property and liability. The author indicates that the provisions of Insolvency Law on the status of spouses’ joint property in a bankruptcy case contradict the general principles of a foreclosure on common property, violate the spouse’s rights of a bankrupt. The paper by Margaret Dee McGarity is devoted to the relevant issues of mechanisms for protecting the rights of the bankrupt’s spouse to joint property during the bankruptcy procedure in the USA. The researcher considers the problem of the contradiction of legal approaches to the regulation of the above relations in different states of America and the insufficiency of their regulation at the state level. Margaret Dee McGarity claims that modern socio-economic phenomena in American society requires an improvement in the mechanism for protecting the rights of a bankrupt’s spouse to their joint property, which is to be included in a bankruptcy estate in during a bankruptcy case of one of the spouses.
The work by Brian Hemphill is devoted to the relevant issues of a “bankruptcy estate” as a fundamental concept in bankruptcy law of the USA. The researcher attempts to formulate the concept of the bankruptcy estate and to deduce its role in a bankruptcy proceeding. The researcher also analyses assets that are included or excluded from the bankruptcy estate. 
E.V. Bernstein uses the comparative legal method, as he compares similar institutions of common joint ownership of spouses, spouses’ liability in the USA, England, Germany and Russia. The purpose of the paper is the identification of similar and different features of the institutions of joint ownership of spouses and spouses’ liability in Russia and foreign countries, as well as the search for the problems that currently exist in this area. The author concludes that the path that Russian law has taken in regulating the above institutions is different from the paths chosen by the United States, Germany, and England.
The work by Grant S. Nelson is devoted to the relevant issues of mortgaged property selling. The researcher hypothesizes that the mortgagee is frequently the only purchaser at the foreclosure sale. The article explores the procedural and substantive principles governing deficiency judgments in Missouri and proposes suggestions for legislative and judicial change in this area.
D.A.  Danilov focuses on the problem of individual bankruptcy - the lack of legislative consolidation of the institution of spouses’ joint bankruptcy. The purpose of the article is the identification of controversial issues that courts arise considering the cases of spouses’ joint bankruptcy and the solution of these issues by legal regulating of the institution of joint bankruptcy. D.A. Danilov uses the method of ascending from the abstract to the concrete - the author analyzes the issues can be raised in judicial practice on joint bankruptcy cases then illustrates these issues, giving specific examples from judicial practice. The author concludes that the most controversial issues in judicial practice are the amount of claims to spouses-debtors required to initiate bankruptcy proceedings and the need of having common obligations to initiate bankruptcy proceedings of the spouses. 
A.S. Postilga educes the criteria that guide the courts in resolving disputes on the problem of the exclusion of residential premises of an individual from the bankruptcy estate, if there are other premises in the bankruptcy estate that belong to the debtor. The author analyzes the main arguments that guided the judges in a process of resolving the issues above in particular bankruptcy cases. The author analyzes the selection criteria for housing excluded from the bankruptcy estate applied in specific bankruptcy cases then formulates general criteria for choosing the only house based on judicial practice. The author concludes that it is necessary to develop common criteria for choosing the only residential premises of the debtor, excluded from the bankruptcy estate, in order to balance the interests of creditors and the debtor and to prevent freely interpreting the provisions of the law on this issue.
The main problem in the work by A.G. Novostrueva and K.A. Karacheva is the lack of a unified approach in the legislation on bankruptcy and judicial practice to the issue of the possibility of spouses’ joint bankruptcy. Authors consider that the lack of direct fixation of the institution of joint bankruptcy in the Bankruptcy law indicates the impossibility of combining bankruptcy cases of different debtors in one proceeding. However, in the Russian Federation there is an ambiguous judicial practice on the issue above. A.G. Novostruev and K.A. Karachev compare the regulation of the regime of common ownership, the distribution of common obligations in a bankruptcy case of spouses-debtors in England, the USA and Russia. 
A.Yu. Astafurova identifies violations of the family, civil and constitutional generally recognized property and procedural rights of a bankrupt’s spouse. The author claims that the norm of paragraph 7 of Art. 213.26 of the Federal Law on Insolvency (Bankruptcy) violates the provisions of art. 35 of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, which fix the right to private property. A.Yu. Astafurov asserts that the procedural status of a debtor’s spouse established by the Bankruptcy law does not allow him to protect his rights and interests. The author concludes that current bankruptcy law does not establish an appropriate mechanism for protecting the rights and interests of debtor’s spouse during the bankruptcy case and violates the property rights of bankrupt’s spouse. 
The work by Andrea B. Carroll is devoted to the community property regime as an effective way to meet the requirements of creditors and guarantee the most complete repayment of debts. The author pays special attention to the institution of spouses’ joint ownership. The author claims that the consistency of marital property laws are threatened by a system that differs from the fundamental principles behind debt collection and favors spouses' creditors. The researcher concludes that the community regime has become too creditor-oriented, which leads to violation of spouses' rights to joint property.
James L. Musselman analyzes the legal regulation of community property regime of spouses after the divorce in the USA. The author compares the legal aspects of the common property regime of spouses in different states of America. The researcher educes two basic types of marital property regimes in the United States. The first and most common type is the common law property system, the second type of marital property regime used by nine of the states is the community property system. 
Methods
For examination of the problem of the bankruptcy estate legal regulation in Russian bankruptcy law during the insolvency procedure, various scientific methods will be used.  The research methodology is based on the method of transition from general to particular. The features of formation and realization procedures of a bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case of a citizen revealed then the features of a common family property distribution in case of individual bankruptcy analyzed. The comparative legal method will be used to analyze the civil  and family legislation approach to regulating debt collection relations, collecting the debtor’s share in the total family property and the approach enshrined in the Bankruptcy Law to regulate similar relationship.
Results anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of legal regulation of the bankruptcy estate and the data on judicial practice of Russian courts show that there are different approaches among researchers, commercial courts and courts of general jurisdiction to the problem of determining the basic principles underlying the legal regulation of the debtor's obligations. A number of researchers criticize the approach of insolvency legislation to defining the legal status of debtor’s spouse and other family members. Deep analysis of judicial practice shows that the extension of the general principles of civil and family law to relations emerging during the bankruptcy procedure leads to debtors' rights abuse. This gives the perspective of strengthening bankruptcy regulation of relations, which are essentially family and civil law regulated. 
A preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice. Materials of Russian arbitrage practice present the data over the period 2017-2019. It shows that courts of general jurisdiction take judicial decisions that contradict general arbitrage practice in particular cases. Arbitrage practice plays a fundamental role in solving the problem of imperfection of the bankruptcy regulation, in particular, in matters of formation, sale and distribution of debtor’s property. I hope my research is close to solve the mentioned problems. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the creation of the institution of individual bankruptcy has caused a lot of controversy among both legal scholars and law enforcement. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of a legal status of a bankrupt and his family members, especially, a spouse. This issue is currently debatable. 
According to some researchers, the current provisions of the Bankruptcy law violate the constitutional rights of citizens, the principles of civil and family law, as well as the principles of justice and humanity.
Other scholars believe that the imperfection of the insolvency legal regulation raises the number of abuses by the debtor, for example, attempts to withdraw liquid assets from the bankruptcy estate by artificially conferring such property with executive immunity, or by artificially dividing the joint property of the spouses.
The Plenum of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation Decree dated December 25, 2018 No. 48 “On some issues related to the particularities of the formation and distribution of the bankruptcy estate in cases of citizens bankruptcy ” made a huge contribution to the regulation of issues related to the formation, realization and distribution of the bankruptcy estate in a bankruptcy case. Nevertheless, the Bankruptcy law itself does not regulate these issues poorly, what causes a huge number of practical problems.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of consumer bankruptcy legal regulation for further study of debtor’s and his property legal status as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
