Introduction
The most common type of entrepreneurial activity on the territory of Russian Federation is small and medium enterprises (SME). It involves a huge amount of Russian citizens (almost 16 million workers). According to the official unified register of subjects of SME there are almost six million small businesses (including micro enterprises) registered on the territory of Russia and more than 20 thousand medium-sized enterprises. A large number of such businesses imposes the responsibility on them to be a bridge between large companies and ordinary citizen-consumers. Moreover, this activity is the most affordable to create, participate in and also to test whether a product (service) is needed, especially when it comes to innovative entrepreneurship. It can be stated with almost an absolute confidence that SME are the basis for economic development because it forms the base on which to build the economy of the country and which involved the majority of the population. 
Background. The policy of Russian state focuses on SME more and more, especially in recent years. New forms of support has improved or, conversely, disappeared. Therefore, the relevance of this topic is that there is a need for constant analysis of development trends of SME and its current status. Moreover, changes introduced in the legislation should always be analyzed in order to identify problems in practice and to predict effects of new rules, to analyze their effectiveness.
Problem statement. The aim of the study is to make an analysis of the current state and development of SME in Russia, to identify the criteria for defining small and medium enterprises, to identify the modern types and forms of supporting such business, to reveal the efficiency of the Corporation’s of the development of small and medium business activity.
In order to achieve the research objectives it is necessary to establish the tasks of the study, which can be formulated as follows:
1. To analyze the existing legislation and science concepts to small and medium enterprises, to identify its essence;
2. To identify and characterize the criteria for determining the subjects of SME;
3. To generate a list of the types and forms of SME support (especially in Perm region);
4. To determine the conditions and procedure for the SME support;
5. To determine the legal status and scope of activities of the Corporation of the development of SME.
Professional significance. The scientific significance of the research is that a comprehensive study of all existing forms and types of support for small and medium businesses will be done, as well as the analysis of a new institution in the law, namely the Corporation of the development of small and medium enterprises.
Delimitations. The study will be performed in the framework of Russian normative legal acts. It is also planned to study Russian and foreign scientific approaches to the definition of small and medium-sized businesses. Special attention will be paid to the forms, conditions and procedure of SME support in Perm region. 
Definitions of key terms. Currently there are no legally defined concepts of SME. Thus, this work will perform the analysis of these concepts, which are used in scientific works.
Literature Review
The formation of SME in Russia has a long history of development. The Federal law "About the development of small and medium entrepreneurship in Russian Federation" The Law  209-FL has become the basis of regulating the activities of small and medium enterprises. The Law defines the main goals and principles of state policy in the sphere of development SME, the category of such businesses, the powers of the authorities in relation to the development of those businesses, the form, procedure and terms of SME support and other crucial aspects.
However, neither the Law nor any other legal act contains a definition of small and medium enterprises. This law establishes only the criteria for determining SME. Thus, it is necessary to refer to the scientific Russian and foreign research in this field. 
According to the opinion of the candidate of economic sciences Kosheleva, T. N. "small business is not only focused on entrepreneurial activities performed by individuals or legal entities but focused on the use of innovative ideas whose main aim is profit maximization, execution of various works and rendering of various services, but with mandatory compliance with legislative criteria". Therefore, the author is largely based not on quantitative indices, but on the inherent features of small enterprises with a reference to the current legislation, thus emphasizing the importance of the established criteria. This definition among others is the most accurate and optimal. Moreover, this definition also fits to the concept of the medium business, except the innovative feature (it is usually referred to small business).
Paul Burns notes the lack of a unified approach to the concept of small business. Moreover, in his opinion, the sole notion of small business will not be able to cover all areas of production made by small businesses. His study refers to the use of eight foreign different definitions that, for example, include the following characteristics: "from 200 workers in the production sector, ? 50,000 in turnover in the retail trade and up to 5 vehicles for business in the sphere of transport". Thus, the author also refers to the criteria for small enterprises, confirming the Russian legislative approach to the definition of SME. However, Paul Burns is drawn to understand small businesses in other ways, namely through its most important defining characteristics, which are expressed in a small share of the market, independence and essential human factor.
Panos G. Piperopoulos in his research notes that the most successful definition SME was given by European Commission which identified a number of criteria as a defining factor for determining SME: the headcount, annual turnover and annual balance sheet total. As mentioned earlier, this approach to definition does not take into account the essential characteristics of the SME. Subsequently in the work, the author will consider the distinctive features of such businesses, the presence of innovative component in the process of their activities based on this definition. The main feature of SME in the author's opinion is that: “SMEs play an important role in local and national economic development, only a small portion of enterprises from the total SMEs population are responsible for the majority of positive effects in terms of innovation, new product development and so on”.
According to article 16 of the Law 209-FL, SME support includes financial, property, informational, consulting support of such entities, support in the field of training, retraining and skills upgrading of their workers, support in innovation and industrial production, handicrafts, support for SME engaged in agricultural activities.
It should also be noted that the conditions and procedure of SME support are established by normative legal acts of Russian Federation, subjects of Russian Federation, municipal legal acts, adopted to implement state programs of Russian Federation, subjects of Russian Federation, municipal programs.
Thus we can conclude that the law has the generalized position about the need to support such entities by including them in different areas of management. The greatest interest for the study are the present form, conditions and procedure for the development of SME in Perm region. The forms of support include special loan programs, the system of guarantees and sureties, subsidies, access to state and municipal procurement, import substitution policy, training, availability of special tax regimes, organization of legal support, organization of training programs of the subjects of SME, and so on.
The most complete and comprehensive approach to the SME analysis is represented in scientific work edited by Hillary Ruth. The edition consists of chapters, each of which has its own field of research and represented by a certain author (researcher). Chapter 20, written by Erik Bichard (Director of The Co-operative Bank's National Centre for Business and Ecology), focuses on the field of ecology, effective environmental management, which will help the development of SME. In particular, Erik Bichard cites the example about specialized company for supporting SME, through which a small firm has increased its annual turnover to 1% in connection with the transition to electronic system of documents circulation and advertising.
A number of authors, such as David B. Audretsch, Roy Thurik, Ingrid Verheul, Sander Wennekers, on the contrary, believe that government (not private firms) should play a key role in supporting SME. Government support includes the following: implementation of different laws and regulations, measures enhancing competition, providing minimal and transparent procedures and arbitration to start and run a business, removing barriers to entry the market by preventing market concentration. The measures for this purposes are: governmental intervention into demand side, supply side, government influence on availability of resources, skills and knowledge of individuals, making some preferences and so on.  
Thus, on the basis of Russian legislation and foreign scientific approaches to the forms, terms and procedure of SME support it can be concluded that governments are concerned about the development of SME. Both at legislative and scientific levels it has been studied and developed new ways for supporting such entities. A list of specific methods is not exhaustive. However, the main regulator of the process of supporting small and medium business is a state.
Some amendments in the Law ¹ 209-FL were made in 2015. They led to creation of the Corporation of the development of small and medium-sized businesses. According to the information presented on the official website of the Corporation, the Corporation coordinates the provision of SME support. The main objectives of the Corporation are: the attraction of cash to support SMEs, marketing, financial and legal support, organization of events aimed at increasing the share of procurement of goods, works, services customers from SMEs, provision of information interaction with public authorities etc.
The official site also gives you the opportunity to see the views of entrepreneurs on the effectiveness of the Corporation activities. Through the analysis of these opinions, it was concluded that despite of the fact that the Corporation operates for a short period of time, it shows good performance and receives only positive feedback. The main achievement of its creation, according to the opinion of Russian President Vladimir Putin, is that the volume of purchases of natural monopolies and companies with state participation of SMEs increased 10 times (the total amount of contracts exceeded one trillion rubles), with a creation of more than 110 thousand jobs.
Methods
A method is a path, a way of achieving the goal. Thus, in order to achieve the objectives of the study the following methods were used: formal legal, historical, analysis, induction, comparative legal. With the help of a formal legal method we can determine the legislative approach to the concept of the subject of SME, to establish criteria for the assignment of business entities to SME, to define the conditions and procedure for supporting SMEs, to develop a classification of  supporting forms, to explore the essence of the Corporation of the development of SMEs, etc.
The historical method will trace the development of legislation in the field of SMEs, reasons for the appearance, disappearance of legal institutions or other changes such as the criteria of reference to subjects of SMEs the concept of SMEs etc.
The method of analysis will reveal the legislator’s logic in the regulation of the sphere SMEs support, to identify the general orientation of the policy of the Russian Federation in the field of SMEs support, to understand the causes of the reforms and to assume the consequences of the changes.
The comparative method will allow to consider different points of view of representatives of the scientific environment on those or other phenomena, and it will allow us to select the most successful approach to the concept of SMEs, the most effective way to support SMEs, as well as objectively assess the impact of the creation of the Corporation of the development of SMEs.
Results anticipated
During the study, it is assumed to formulate the author's definition on the basis of existing definitions of the concept of the subject of SME. Establishing criteria for SMEs’ classification will help to identify the problems of applying the criteria in practice. The analysis of supporting forms will lead to the identification of the most effective form of support, in particular, in Perm region, as well as to the creation of a classification of forms of SME support. The determination of terms and procedure for the support of SMEs may lead to insights about the need to expand these conditions and to improve procedures. The legal status of the Corporation of the development of SMEs, the existing results of its activity will help to predict the consequences of its creation.
Conclusion
In the current economic situation, SMEs are the most vulnerable entities. Consequently, the state and the private sector should take all possible measures to maintain stability in the area of SMEs. The result of this research will be a structured system of support measures for SMEs with analysis of its strengths and weaknesses.



