Introduction
Background. At present there is the increasing concern for entrepreneurship what is not possible without investments. The most promising trends in entrepreneurial law are the venture investments. Also they are called risk capital. The venture capital is a financial asset that is given for development of some ideas or spheres. The key questions here are what guarantees investors get, how it can be formalized. And the answers for these questions are in entrepreneurial law. However, if we imagine that these relationships between investor and the start-up are complicated by foreign element, the answer is laid in the private international law. The situations can be different. The most typical are the following. Firstly, the investor from Russia, the start-up is American, the venture investment is in rubles. Secondly, the American investor, the Russian start-up, the dollar deposit. Thirdly, the investor is the US-Russian corporation, the start-up is from the USA, and the ruble investments. There is a great amount of the legal questions in such type of entrepreneurial legal relationships, and in order to solve it the comparative analysis of the legal regulation of the venture investments in the Russian Federation and in the United States of America will be held.
Problem Statement. The overall goal of this project is to reveal the aspects of the venture investments legal regulation in Russian and in the USA and to conduct the comparative analysis. The general question subsumes several related questions: to define a concept “venture investments”, to find out the jural significance of it, to clarify fundamental provisions of the venture investment activity, to compare the legal regimes of Russia and the USA, to identify the forms of the venture capital regulation, to reveal the investor’s guarantees, to examine the US and Russian court practice. The approach seems to be effective from the perspective of practical investment activity.
Delimitations of the Study. It is not within the scope of the present research to touch upon the issues concerning the investments like an overall concept and the venture investments in other states. Moreover, the present investigation is limited by the access to information, for instance, the real treaties and agreements of the investors and the start-ups, their guarantees, profit conditions, etc. Also there is a lack of judicial practice on the venture investments, because this concept is too modern for Russia, however some rare examples will be discovered.
Professional Significance. Seen in their relations to the general purpose the first objective to meet is the legal regulations comparison. The problem raised is said to be a matter of great interest for all those who are engaged in entrepreneurial legal relationships in Russia and in the USA. The fact is that this topic is not scientifically developed, however is increasingly considered as central to better understanding the mechanism of the venture investments with the foreign element. It will be extremely important for practice to investigate the venture capital in terms of its application in the Russian Federation and in the USA. It will help to identify the most suitable provisions for the further possibility of implementation it to Russian legislation. In consequence, the unification of law and the uniform application will be achieved, what will improve the entrepreneurship in two states.
Literature Review
The present literature review is based on systematic way of studying the existing vast literature about the investments. Whereas the concept of investment matters is extremely complicated I will try to focus on the venture investments. Studies on the venture investments appeared in academic arguments as part of investment activity. Recent investigations put forward new definitions and approaches especially in the sphere of international venture investments.
First of all, what is the venture investment? According to Cumming, the venture investment and the venture capital is financing provided to companies which do not have cash flows to pay dividends or debts. The author suggests a classification of the venture investments. It includes three types: start-up investments, early-stage investments, expansion-state investments. The Cumming approach turns out to provide sufficient explanation of the company development and the role of venture investments in the particular stage. Therefore, depending on type of the venture investments we can determine better form of agreement and better conditions for both investor and the company-investee.
Another important question for the project research is to understand how venture capital works. Bob Zider proposed a new explanation for the venture investments at the end of the XX century. The author called the most common features for the investment activity and the investor. According to Zider, the investor is appreciated by his knowledge and experience, not only by his capital, and “the myth is that venture capital is for good people and good ideas”, the truth is that venture investments are for good industries. This particular subject has been hotly debated time and again by scientists and businessman.
Joseph W. Bartlett considered that the would-be entrepreneurs are oriented on the most popular businessmen, their personalities, e.g. Jobs, Wang. And we cannot univocally assert that the venture investments are not for good people. The personality of the investee and the potential of the company are very important to start investment legal relationships.
The discussion about the investors and the investees gets more specific in case of the venture investments. The question raised is about the difference between angel investment and venture capital. Answering this question, from the one hand, Virgin (nd.) point that the venture investor is always a corporation, and it always gets profit, from the other hand, the angel investor is a personal contributor with possibility to get profit. Therefore, the typical venture investor is a corporation what maintains requirements for making a profit.
Nor Russian, neither American scholars manage to explain what should be the form of the investment agreement. And the general purpose of it is providing the legality, respect for rights and the balance of convenience. Consequently, some authors try to point basic keys for the legal agreement.
Glovers Solicitors suggest six measures to achieve that goal. Firstly, due diligence as the instrument of the complex start-up estimating. Secondly, failsafe conditions laying especially in the sphere of corporative law. Thirdly, right to information providing the opportunity to monitor the business. Fourthly, restriction on management to prevent some actions without investor’s compliance. Fifthly, warranties by shareholders, and the last, underperformance of management.
All these measures can be treated as the investors’ guarantees, what is extremely important for legal venture investments regulation. However, that is just a theory.
This point of view is approved by Pearce and Barnes, who emphasize special attitude of the investors in “The Miser’s Axiom”: “Never buy new what can be second-hand. Never buy what can be rented. Never rent what can be borrowed. Never borrow what can be begged. Never beg what can be salvaged.” The attitude is “a heart” of what usually investors and the entrepreneurial management teams do – they not only give money, but also manage very limited resources.
Furthermore, according to Pearce and Barnes, this attitude is a base for the special terms in the investment agreement: the voting rights, the dividend rights, the preference shares, the redemption features.
The alternative view on the legal regulation of the venture investments is expressed by Cumming, when the connection of the bankruptcy law and the venture capital activity was proved. This issue will be developed in our further research.
The British Venture Capital Association, working with leading venture capital investors in the United Kingdom, designed some standardized documents, without which the legal investment activity is not possible. Firstly, it is a subscription and shareholders' agreement, also known as an investment agreement. Usually it is a single document, containing a subscription agreement and a shareholder or investor rights agreement. Secondly, new articles of association of the company-investee. The articles form part of the company's constitution and govern the internal management of the company's affairs. These documents can be also applied in the USA and Russia.
Under closer examination, some venture investments research seem to be theoretically challenged. Moreover, some of them are not universal and have been under increasing scrutiny, e.g. study of Alan S. Gutterman (1994). Professor Gutterman tends to underestimate practical consequences of financial activity, inter alia investment activity. Further, a focus on investments themselves does not have any special explanatory power for the observed phenomenon. A better option for academic project is to shift the topic of theoretical concentration to comparative analysis of venture investments in Russia and in the USA.
Leo Batalov gives us an overview of venture investments in Russia. His approach will be useful for the analysis. The author highlights possibilities of the venture investment activity in the Russian Federation. We can divide his article on several parts: market overview, tax schemes, fund structuring, their regulation and licensing, investment objectives, investee companies, investors and exit strategies.
This guide is well-balanced, because Batalov’s approach is not prejudiced in favour of only advantages or disadvantages of the venture capital activity in Russia, it shows market situation in an objective manner.
Speaking about features of venture investments in Russia, the major and the most active sector is the information technologies. It includes about 90% of all venture investments. Such situation reflects the global trend of venture capital. The same situation is in the USA.
Moreover, there is an increase in number of new foreign investors. In consequence, some of “the venture capital funds are structured as limited partnerships in non-Russian, tax-efficient jurisdictions”. I suppose, that the reason for it can be not appropriate legislation concerning the investor’s guarantees, not unified court practice and high taxes.
The theory about forms of the venture investment activity offered by Batalov seems to be vague and illegitimate because not all forms are considered. I suppose, the list of them is not limited by limited partnership agreement, shareholders’ agreement and the articles of association.
Turning to the venture investments in the USA and Europe, Lawrence M. Rausch states that the technology areas such as computer technologies (hardware and software production), medical and health-care-related spheres, telecommunications companies attract large amounts of venture capital. We can see the same trend at the end of the XX century and in years to come. However the amount of venture investments in Europe is smaller than in the USA.
The distinction in mechanism of the venture capital realization is the existence of European Venture Capital Association that accompanies investment activity and gives nonfinancial support for new entrepreneurs.
The Russian analogue is the Russian Venture Capital Association. Its mission is “Promotion of the Russian PE&VC market formation and development”.
Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out the study. The field study will analyse venture investments within a framework of practical issues. There is a great variety of means at our disposal for investigating venture investments: logical, comparative, induction, legal technical methods. 
The logic method is obligatory for law research, because it makes law “as regular and as definite as possible”.
Other methods are chosen under the principle of “the goal determines the way to follow”. If I want to conduct a comparative analysis I choose comparative, induction, legal technical methods.
It will serve the purposes of the present simplify the analysis if all the components can be allocated to a position in a system of the investment legal relationships. The reason why I intend to use those methods is to correlate legal regulation of venture investments in Russia and in the USA. The strategy offers a practical way to implement advantages of the USA venture investment law to Russian legislation.
First and foremost, I divide the investment legal relationships by several parts: the subjects, the object, the matter (rights and obligations). Then applying above methods I will conduct a comparative analysis of these components: whether they exist or not, what qualities they have, and etc. Finally, I will match these components between each other Russian and American.
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The findings of the study will challenge current thinking about venture investments in Russia from the legal point of view. The temporary results establish the jural significance of the venture capital, fundamental provisions of venture investment activity, basic the forms of the venture capital regulation It might be expected, on the one hand, that Russian regulation of venture investments is not unrelated to the American model, on the other hand, Russian legislation could already take all the best from the US investment legislation.
The facts obtained will confirm the validity of my ideas. To base my position it is informative to integrate a table in the text.
Conclusion
It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to investment politics as a whole. The practical problems arise from the very beginning of investment process, for instance, whether this type if investments is allowed in Russia or not. Moreover, venture investment as a concept is a very specific kind of financial support. Therefore, a specific kind of regulation must be provided in domestic and international legislation. There is a great amount of scientific approaches to the investments in general, and there is a lack of them in the field of venture investments and law.
Although, there is no legal definition of venture investments at all levels of regulation, the most suitable and appropriate definition is “financing provided to companies which do not have cash flows to pay dividends or debts”.
Furthermore, in case of providing grounds to regulate the venture investment legal relationships with the foreign element, I reveal the legal significance and the basic principles of investment regulation in the international law.
The most important conclusion is that Russian model of venture investment regulation is similar to the US, what is contrary to popular belief.
To bring the project to a close it is possible to confirm the existing theory of disadvantages of Russian entrepreneurial law, to implement the luckiest provisions to domestic legislation and to stimulate theoretical research into similarities of venture investments in Russia and Romano-Germanic law system.
