Introduction
Background. There is formed opinion that gambling and entertainment related to gambling are historically perceived as a specific area of law, that is, subject to certain restrictions and prohibitions, taking into account such criteria as admissibility. This implies the need for clear legal regulation of this activity. The lack of clear legislation regulating gambling gave rise to the administration of this sphere at the level of subjects, but the effectiveness of these measures was low. Today, the Russian Federation has complementary regulatory mechanisms, such as licensing and the licensing system, and tax incentives. There is also the outline of the special zones where permitted activities related to your gambling, in these zones takes place as the establishment of administrative barriers and tax stimulants. A small number of sources are devoted to the study of legal regulation of gambling in the Russian Federation, since the regulation of this type of activity in the form in which it is now recognized as relatively young. It is necessary to note the lack of coverage of this topic. Some theoretical and practical research has been conducted in this area. As part of the research, researchers based on the analysis put forward a sufficient number of proposals for reforming the part of gambling activity in the Russian Federation, indicating its features and disadvantages.
Problem Statement. This research aims to study legal regulation of gambling business in the Russian Federation, identification of features and shortcomings of the system of regulation of gambling activity, proposal of ways of development. In conformity with the purpose of the study the research project objectives are:
1. Formulate the concept of gambling.
2. Determine the meaning and functions of the mechanism of legal regulation of gambling activities.
3. Study of the legal basis of gambling.
4. Consideration of the gambling tax system.
5. To study judicial practice on the issues of conducting and organizing gambling.
6. Determining the advantages and disadvantages of the system of legal regulation of gambling in the Russian Federation, offering positive-oriented adjustments.
Delimitations of the Study. The project is more focused on the legal regulation of gambling business in Russia, in details it will be considered the features of gambling as a form of economic activity. Legal practice in gambling industry cases will be covered. The project also covers the specifics of gambling zones in the Russian Federation. It is also important to touch upon the experience of regulating the gambling business of foreign countries.
Professional Significance. The research will be of primary importance to students of law students, lawyers, and academics involved in tax and financial law. At the moment, there is no deep practice in the issues of legislation regulating gambling in Russia, but there is formed legislation that can and should be analyzed, calculated shortcomings and suggested ways of development. In addition, the topic covers tax and financial legislation, which directly affects the Russian economy as a whole, its subjects and budget revenues, which are  undoubtedly very important.
Definitions of Key Terms. Activities for organizing and conducting gambling games - activities for providing services for concluding risk-based winning agreements with gambling participants and (or) organizing the conclusion of such agreements between two or more gambling participants. A gambling zone is a part of the territory of the Russian Federation that is intended for the organization and conduct of gambling activities and whose borders are established in accordance with this Federal law; "On state regulation of the organization and conduct of gambling and on amendments to certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation"). 
Literature review
A certain number of Russian and foreign researchers devoted their work to the issues raised in the study. Currently, not many researchers in the field of law deal with the issues of gambling, legal regulation of gambling, financial and tax aspects of gambling. The General basis of the study is the presence of certain restrictions in the gambling business. Many researchers note the connection of gambling with social, economic and political problems in the country.
Stepasyuk S. A. explained the policy-making process of the state in regulating the sphere of gambling. He notes that the gambling tax is the highest business tax that exists in Russia. The next problem the author notes is the high limits of entry into the business: the large size of state duties, the presence of a certain legal status, the harsh conditions of the organization, as a result of losing interest from investors in this area, it does not develop. 
M. N. Potenza revealed that over the past few decades, the United States and other parts of the world have seen a rapid increase in the availability of legalized gambling. She notes that the relationship between gambling patterns and people's health has been addressed in only a few studies. Existing data support the idea that certain types of gambling, in particular problem and pathological gambling, are associated with health problems that are not related to gambling. 
Vakhitov R. F. studies the geography of gambling zones in Russia, conducts a comparative analysis of them, and identifies the main characteristics and features of development. He notes that the most successful at the moment is the gambling zone "Primorye". He also draws attention to the legislative framework that controls and regulates the activities of gambling businesses. The author notes that in order for the gambling business to bring good profits to both the organizers and the budget of the subject of the Russian Federation, it is necessary to change the legislation, develop a clearer regulatory framework, and develop infrastructure in existing gambling zones.
Serikova G.N. conducted a research study of the gambling market using a survey of the population, the author analyzed the impact of age and gender on gaming practice. It was found that 4 times more men play gambling, and the most active age group is from 31 to 50 years old. We studied the prevalence of gambling in the Internet, obviously, this question was dominated by young age group. The impact of the Russian state regulation on gambling was analyzed. It was found that after the legislative ban on gambling, the number of people playing has significantly decreased.  
The author presents the history of gambling business development in Russia and compares its development with this sphere in other countries, in particular, in the United States. It is noted that the laws of the Russian Federation do not provide for punishment of people who play gambling, the legislation provides for administrative and criminal liability only for the organizers of illegal gambling. 
D. Brill answers questions about why people play gambling, what makes them come to gambling establishments, why gambling addictions occur, and also talks about possible ways to treat gambling addiction.
Despite the fact that gambling addiction is a global social problem, many people tend to classify this pathology as a medical disorder. The article provides an opinion, for example, Dr. Scott Greco, a sociologist at the London school of Economics (LSE), emphasizes the importance of other factors. 
Sleptsova U.M. notes that after the introduction of restrictions on gambling in the Russian Federation, gambling projects began to develop actively in neighboring countries, which caused an outflow of Finance and investment from the country, which in turn has a negative impact on the state's economy. The author notes the inefficiency of creating gambling zones, citing statistics, for example, 1.4 billion rubles were spent on the development of a gambling zone in the Krasnodar region, which did not pay off in the future. Another important drawback of gambling zones in Russia is their free availability in other countries, for example, in the Kaliningrad region, Armenia and Georgia compete. 
The author also notes that gambling in the Russian Federation can often be used for corrupt purposes. She draws attention to the Convention on preventing and combating corruption, adopted by the UN, which was taken to form international cooperation to eliminate the negative consequences of gambling for the purpose of «money laundering». 
V.V.Usynin deals with gambling in the Russian Federation, discusses the main aspects of the criminal law prohibition of gambling, and describes the reasons for criminalizing the organization and conduct of gambling. The author draws attention to the countries where gambling is legalized, he notes different approaches to state regulation, for example, in some countries, the model of state dominance in the regulation of gambling is chosen, while the society has a positive attitude to the development of this industry and does everything to ensure that it develops. 
Nelson Rose brings to gaming researchers, with or without a legal education, a roundup of major issues and problems in the unsettled field of Internet gaming. By citing laws, cases, articles and treatises this annotated essay leads the reader through the maze of confusion and contradiction that now clutters the legal scene. Topics touched on include: elements of gambling, Federal, state and local gambling regulation, organized crime implications, extraterritorial jurisdiction, police power and advertising.  
Pierre-Yves Gautier presents the haphazard status of money games in private law which is both heavily influenced by ancient moral values and assailed by demands to accommodate the players’ bets based on chance and the goal of collecting their money. The taste for gambling has remained the same and bass have been progressively lifted. The Internet and the European Commission have been very influential in that respect. But one of the consequences of this normal evolution has been the inconsistency of the sources of law: the old civil code — the French common law quite conservative on this matter-remains unchanged, while the more liberal and more specialized law is flourishing on the side. 
Christoph Luetge analyzes the existing literature and develops a conceptual framework to provide an overview of the differences between investment, speculation, and gambling. He claims that gambling differs structurally from investment and speculation in terms of the classic distinction between risk and uncertainty and the separation between consuming and non-consuming activities. Moreover, he arrives that investment and speculation share too many similarities to be separated in a consistent way.
Methods
In this part of the project proposal the methods, which will be used in conducting the research, are explained. The research methodology was based on the following methods: formal legal method, functional and logical methods. The logical method is used to analyze the system of legal regulation of gambling in the Russian Federation. Functional and formal legal methods allow us to determine the content of gambling activity as an economic activity, study its classification, and use legal concepts and terms.
Results anticipated
From a preliminary analysis of the work of Russian and foreign scientists, we can deduce that there are different approaches to the issue under discussion. Some researchers characterize the gambling business in Russia as very specific, given the conditions in which this activity is carried out and the Russian mentality. Based on the work of scientists, we can predict that the gambling business in Russia has good prospects for development. It is expected that in the near future, due to the development of gambling activities in Russia, the legislation will be worked out in more detail. A preliminary analysis of the data obtained allows you to outline the results from the point of view of legal practice. It is shown that there are many differences in the regulation of gambling in foreign countries. Based on foreign experience, as well as analyzing the Russian realities of gambling, it is expected to identify gaps in the system of legal regulation of this activity. I hope that the amendments proposed in the study will solve some of the problems that arise in the sphere of legal regulation of gambling in the Russian Federation.
Conclusion
The accomplished work on the project proposal shows that many controversial issues still remain unresolved. To date, the Russian Federation has not developed a clear methodology for detecting and investigating crimes, and the regulation itself is controversial and unstable. Legal regulation of gambling is currently contradictory and unstable. In the future, there may be drastic changes in this area, depending on the political course and the public's desire. Despite government restrictions, access to gambling does not pose significant difficulties; the state suffers from the emergence of a shadow economy and potential budget deficits.   	
To sum up, the proposed study attempts to develop the sphere of gambling in the Russian Federation, in particular the legal regulation of this type of activity, taking into account the specifics of the country.
