Introduction
Background. An increasing amounts of publications in the sphere of testamentary succession signify the expanded role of international treaties provisions which should be applied instead of international conflict norms. The problem of deciding which substantive rule should be applied to certain relationships is a hot issue in scholarly debates as well. 
While the debate over different approaches to testamentary succession under private international law remains popular some vital aspects of testamentary relationships complicated by a foreign element are omitted. Furthermore, in spite of numerous attempts at analyzing private international law provisions recent studies have reached widely differing conclusions.
Therefore, it is crucial to reveal the place of private international law in the national law system and to determine its role in the legal regulation process.
Problem Statement. The proposal focuses on succession law matters of Russia, Ukraine, Great Britain, France, Germany, Poland, Holland, and the USA. The reason for the range of countries chosen is that there are examples of Roman-German legal system regulation (Germany, France, Holland) as well as Anglo-Saxon legal system regulation (Great Britain, the USA). Moreover, Russia and such states as Ukraine and Poland have concluded the international treaties of legal support on civil and family matters, which the paper also focuses on.
The research question is aimed at exploration of not only different countries law provisions but also of the approaches to the problem of testamentary succession under private international law that various theorists have advocated. The issue discussed was exacerbated by the EU states’ Migration policy.
According to the statistics, “a total of 4.7 million people immigrated to one of the EU-28 Member States during 2015”. As a result of such changes, testamentary relationships became complicated by a foreign element as migrants became a part of a new legal environment and had to stick to foreign law. For example, “the largest numbers of non-nationals living in the EU Member States on 1 January 2016 were found in Germany (8.7 million persons), the United Kingdom (5.6 million), Italy (5.0 million), and France (4.4 million)”.
Therefore, it is in great interest in the situation described to develop the unified set of rules of how to apply conflict norms to testamentary relationships.
It seems preferable to consider the objectives of the study. The objectives are:
- to identify testamentary succession legal regulation in Russia, Ukraine, Great Britain, France, Germany, Poland, Holland, and in the USA;
- to identify the grounds for invalidity of wills in Russia, Ukraine, Great Britain, France, Germany, Poland, Holland, and the USA;
- to analyze Russian, Ukrainian, English, French, Germany, Dutch, Polish,  and American national conflict norms and the states’ treaties provisions of succession;
- to analyze a set of Russian and foreign court decisions of will contest; 
- to solve different cases of how to apply conflict norms to certain relationships;
- to develop the rules for notaries when dealing with testamentary relationships complicated by a foreign element.
Delimitations of the Study. For practical reasons the present study will be limited in the amount of information to be analyzed. For example, I will attempt to formulate the criteria for conflict norms application to certain testamentary relationships rather than the criteria for conflict norm application in general. 
Furthermore, certain constraints on the study of succession under private international law were put. For instance, firstly, I am not going to investigate succession on intestacy. Secondly, the study findings will be restricted by the selection of the countries due to their legal regulation of testamentary matters.
This research will not be aimed at the analysis of practical cases for foreign notaries due to the lack of appropriate and accessible literature but rather at the analysis of practical cases for notaries in Russia. Moreover, it is not in the scope of the present research to explore in any depth the problem of court jurisdiction in relation to settlement of a probate case.
Professional Significance. In the present investigation I will verify and if possible amplify the knowledge of testamentary succession under private international law, especially, different countries legal regulation of making wills. 
The overall goal of the study is not only to juxtapose Russian and foreign law provisions of making a will and testamentary succession rules in order to elaborate the amendments to the Russian Civil Code but also to develop a set of rules of how to apply national conflict norms when there is no treaty between the states. The issue raised is a matter of significance for all administrates of law and scholars who are engaged in testamentary relationships complicated by a foreign element.
In addition, as one of my objective is to develop the rules for notaries when dealing with testamentary relationships complicated by a foreign element the paper will be a matter of paramount for Russian notaries.
To reach the main purpose it is worthwhile to follow and develop certain of Andrei Popesсu’s insights because he managed to consider certain practical cases for both judges and notaries.
Literature Review
The basis for the present research is provided by the specific literature on testamentary succession under private international law, international treaties and national legislation on succession in Russia, Ukraine, Great Britain, France, Germany, Poland, Holland, and the USA. For instance, I intend to investigate the Uniform Probate Code (the USA), the Wills Act (Great Britain), the French Civil Code, and the Dutch Civil Code. 
Legislators in the countries mentioned advocate quite different approaches to legal nature of a will. For instance, according to the French Civil Code, “a will is an act by which the testator disposes, for the time when he shall no longer exist, of the whole or of part of his property, and which he is at liberty to revoke”). While an American legislator defines that, “will is a codicil or any testamentary instrument that merely appoints an executor, revokes or revises another will, nominates a guardian, or expressly excludes or limits the right of an individual or class to succeed to property of the decedent passing by intestate succession”. Here the emphasis is made on the possibility to appoint an executor of a will or nominate a guardian. Moreover, contrary to the Russian Civil Code, a will is considered to be a limitation of heirs’ on intestate succession rights.
An English legislator advocates the similar approach, “the word “will” shall extend to a testament, and to a codicil, and to an appointment by will or by writing in the nature of a will in exercise of a power and also to an appointment by will of a guardian of a child . . . and to any other testamentary disposition”. Meanwhile, according to the Dutch Civil Code, “a last will is a one-sided (unilateral) juridical act with which the testator makes a disposition that is to be effective after his death and is recognized by law as an act with such result”. This definition is the nearest one to the Russian legal thought, firstly, because of the unilateral legal nature of a will. No mutual will shall be considered valid in Russia and Holland. This is the striking feature of Russian, Dutch, Polish, and German legal regulation of testamentary.
Numerous attempts have been made to give a firm basis to the research on private international law testamentary. Professor Abramenkov’s contribution to the development of new approach to testamentary is highly estimated by the academy. Especially, his research on preliminary question in international succession matters is in great value among scholars. Professor Abramenkov’s ideas exerted great influence on my theoretical and empirical studies in this field as well.
For a long period of time in Russian Federation research on testamentary succession have been entirely related to only Russian national legislation. Moreover, studies on testamentary succession under private international law in Russia were initially performed just in 2000. However, until 2007 these research have not been subjected to conscious scrutiny.
With the wide range of international relations development in the meantime the problems tied up with testamentary under private international law require a lot of further investigation. Furthermore, there is a shortage in knowledge of how to apply a certain conflict norm when there are no international treaties between states. Consequently, this field of study is worthwhile to be more detailed investigated and will be examined in this research.
Many existing research on how to apply conflict norms to certain relationships require a great deal of thorough examination because some approaches are confusing and ambiguous. For instance, the theory offered by Professor Gary seems to be vague and uncertain. He failed to realize some possible consequences of applying a provision which is not appropriate in a certain case. (Gary, 2008). William Musyoka tended to neglect a vital point of conflict of succession law resolution. He did not point out the importance of international treaties provisions application.
However, many western scholars’ approaches to testamentary are devoid of some serious shortcomings and are considered to be reliable. For example, the research on conflict norms application rules carried out by Pauline Ridge and Professor Ronald J. Scalise covered the whole range of possible situations and propose relevant solutions to tackle the problems of testamentary under private international law.
Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. In this section I seek to rely on qualitative approach within the existing paradigm I aim to employ in studying testamentary succession. 
From my perspective, the most effective methods of research on private international law are:
method of comparative legal analysis;
system-based legal method;
For instance, system-based legal method is used to analyze certain practical cases which are debating on the applicable rule.
The reason why I intend to use the methods mentioned is that they enable administrators of law and scholars to juxtapose different countries legislation in order to determine which legal regulation of testamentary is more efficient.
Moreover, in order to regularize the way notaries deal with testamentary matters complicated by a foreign element data structuring method is employed. The method mentioned allows me to gather and structurize the information collected in the best way possible.
As a result, the methodology used serves for organizing the existing knowledge of testamentary succession.
Results Anticipated
In the part to follow the presentation of the results will use an appropriate organizational pattern. 
Firstly, the examination of the facts will point out the existence of private international law as a separate branch of law with its methodology and legal regulation. Secondly, it may be expected that the data on testamentary succession to be obtained will challenge current thinking about it as now testamentary succession is considered to be limited to only national legislation regulation.
Moreover, the results anticipated are intended to provide support to the criteria for conflict norms application. It is expected that these criteria will determine the basis for testamentary succession rules under private international law. 
Furthermore, the approach used will suffice to provide deeper understanding of the nature of testamentary relationship complicated by a foreign element.
Conclusion
It appears from what has been discussed that the main problem of testamentary succession under private international law can most effectively be handled by the elaboration of certain criteria for conflict norms application. Proposal also demonstrates that private international law has an independent status and its own social background. 
Furthermore, my findings have some practical implementation, especially, they will be beneficial for Russian notaries as I attempt to develop the rules for notaries when dealing with testamentary relationships complicated by a foreign element.
The results obtained will provide a guideline for studying other aspects of international succession institute. For example, I would recommend theorists to focus on succession on intestacy under private international law because this field of study requires a lot of further examination. Moreover, I assume that the methods employed could prove superior to those used before in this field of study. 
To put it briefly, the project will be an attempt to fertile the area of international testamentary for further examination.
