Introduction
Background. The relevance of the selected topic is due to the fact that:
1. Tax evasion remains a mass phenomenon that damages the interests of the state and society. It seems that this requires changes in the tax system, as well as changes in legislation to combat tax crimes. This is especially important in the context of the economic crisis in the country and the action of sanctions.
2. In recent years, there has been a rapid growth in new economic and financial relations. These are Internet banking, cryptocurrencies, online trading, and the possibility of remote (remote) work. Global economic requirements do not require a settlement, which makes it possible to pay taxes and withdraw funds.
3. In the context of globalization, the fight against financial crime is becoming a universal task that cannot be solved without discussion. Countries must combat such crimes, implement legislation, and fully coordinate. Actualization of law is one of the main tasks of the legal community.
Problem Statement.  The purpose of the work is to study the legislation of the Russian Federation and a number of foreign countries in the field of combating tax crimes and try to imagine a possible transformation of the legislation of the Russian Federation to increase the effectiveness of the fight against such crimes.
The objectives of the work are:
- to conduct a criminal legal analysis of the composition of tax crimes – Art. 198, 199, 199.1 and 199.2 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation;
- to identify the shortcomings of the current legislation of the Russian Federation, providing for penalties for tax crimes;
- to study the features of the legislation of foreign countries in the field of combating tax crimes;
- to consider possible ways of reforming the rule of law aimed at combating tax evasion.
Delimitations of the Study. In this work, a detailed analysis of each composition of the tax crime provided for by Article 198 – 199.2 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation: defined general, generic, species and immediate objects; the objective side of each criminal act is described; it is determined that all tax crimes will last and have a formal structure design. It was also established the end of these crimes. In addition, a circle of individuals has been created, who can commit tax crimes. The subjective side of each of these crimes was characterized, and some of its optional elements (purpose and motive) were studied as necessary.
It also analyzed the legislation on combating tax crimes in other countries – the United States, Germany and France. Similarities and differences of legislation were revealed, the experience of these countries in the fight against tax evasion was analyzed.
It also was made an attempt to forecast the transformation of the criminal legislation of the Russian Federation in the field of tax crimes, based on the rich practical and theoretical experience of Russian and foreign theorists and practitioners in the fight against tax crime.
The author is confident that taking into account Russian and foreign experience, taking into account the recommendations of the OECD in the field of combating tax crimes, it is possible to significantly improve legislation and practice to combat them, to make the tax system as effective.
Professional Significance. The study will be relevant for law students, tax officials, law enforcement officials. Particularly valuable work requires proposals to amend the legislation of the Russian Federation in the fight against tax crimes in foreign countries.
Definitions of Key Terms. Tax – a compulsory, individually gratuitous payment levied on organizations and individuals in the form of alienation of funds owned by them on the basis of ownership, economic management or operational management in order to financially support the activities of the state and (or) municipalities.
Insurance premium - compulsory payments for compulsory pension insurance, compulsory social insurance in case of temporary incapacity for work and in connection with motherhood, compulsory medical insurance, levied by organizations and individuals in order to financially secure the realization of the rights of insured persons to receive insurance coverage for the corresponding type of compulsory social insurance. (“Tax Code of the Russian Federation” (part one) article 8. part 3).
A tax offense is a wrongfully committed (in violation of the legislation on taxes and fees) act (action or inaction) of a taxpayer, payer of insurance premiums, a tax agent and other persons for which the Tax Code establishes liability. 
Literature review
Many Russian and foreign scientists devoted their work to the study of tax crimes.
Pankratiev devoted his research to the study of problems and prospects for the development of criminal law in the field of tax crimes.
In his work, A.N. Pankratiev raises the issue of the insolvency of the tax policy of our state, which leads to contradictions in the regulatory framework and law enforcement. Being an employee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation, A.N. Pankratiev notes the highest role of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation in the fight against tax crimes after changing the procedure for initiating criminal cases of tax crimes in 2014.
The special value of this work lies in the fact that all the of the raised topics  are considered from a practical point of view, since A.N. Pankratiev is an active employee of the Main Department of Economic Security and Anti-Corruption of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia.
In the work of Smagina considers types of liability for tax offenses. This article is especially useful for understanding the distinction between tax offenses and tax crimes.
The value of the work A. Smagina consists in the fact that in order to structure the types of tax offenses and tax obligations and justify the independent nature of tax obligations, the author carefully considers various legal norms that provide for liability for tax violations. She concludes that the independent nature of tax obligations in the system of legal responsibility is confirmed by the presence of specific features, which A. Smagina and Highlights.
The work of Efimov and Tokarev analyzes the process of development of criminal legislation providing for criminal liability for tax crimes. Efimov and Tokarev pay particular attention to the reasons for the appearance of Art. 199.1 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation.
The authors of the article note the huge public danger of tax crimes and the huge damage from their commission for budgets of all levels. Studying the history of criminal law, which provides for liability for criminal offenses, according to the authors, helps to realize their essence.
The particular value of this work can be seen in the fact that the authors not only highlight the advantages of the legislation, but also point out the shortcomings, the elimination of which led to a change in the legislation.
Soloviev’s monograph raises the problem of combating tax crimes and the direction of adjusting the state’s criminal policy to combat economic crimes in general and tax crimes in particular. The author analyzes the legal characteristics of tax crimes, which is contained in the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation, and also studies the law enforcement practice, including operational search activities. Given the author’s experience in law enforcement, his thoughts on coordinating the activities of law enforcement agencies and the tax service are interesting. The main value of Solovyov’s work is that in his monograph he not only gives basic concepts, gives theoretical reasoning, but does this on the basis of his professional experience in law enforcement and research on factual material.
Sinichkin and Sergeeva in their work analyze the elements of criminal offenses qualified under articles of tax evasion. They pay special attention to the issue of criminal prosecution of tax crimes.
In their article, Sinichkin and Sergeeva conducts an article-by-article analysis of the corpus delicti in order to show their features. As a result of the analysis of the compositions of Article 198, 199, 191.1 and 199.2, the authors conclude that the fundamental problem in proving tax crimes is evidence that direct crimes are committed when they are committed, which is the subjective side of compiling crime data. If it was not possible to prove direct intention, then there will be no corpus delicti, and, therefore, a person cannot be held criminally liable.
Solving problems grounded in tax crime investigation.
Balyuk's work contains a detailed analysis of the elements of tax crimes. The central place in the article has problems in determining the object and subject of a tax crime. The author focuses on the characteristics of the objective and subjective side of tax crimes.
The work of William G. Gale and Aaron Krupkin is devoted to the study of problems related to tax violations in the United States. The authors of the article indicate a huge amount of unpaid taxes by the Americans. And they rightly point out that people who evade taxes not only cheat on the government, they also steal from their neighbors who follow tax laws and regulations.
The authors of the article analyze the reasons for tax evasion. They note that in the USA tax evasion can be intentional and unintentional.
In the study of Annette Alstadstetter, Niels Johannesen, Gabriel Zuckman, the authors study the size and distribution of tax evasion in rich countries. Based on this study, it can be concluded that the greater the increase in wealth, the greater the increase in tax evasion. Despite this, as tax evasion increases, tax compliance also increases.
Clark Merrefield’s work raises the problem of people trying to get away from paying the full share of what they owe to the US government on income taxes in every tax season. The work raises the question of how big this problem is, why people do it and how to deal with it.
Nubia Evertsson's work discusses reports submitted by corporations that were implicated in the so-called Panama Papers scandal. The results also show that CEOs dispute the law, applying legal pragmatism, using innovative corporate taxation methods and creating (secret) business structures in separate places (tax areas). On the whole, they ignore any social responsibility in the countries from which their capital originates, since their main interest is the accumulation of wealth at minimal cost.
The case study of Prem Sikka argues that government policy requires all large companies to make their tax returns publicly available. This is confirmed by the fact, that such a policy may indicate tax evasion, which also ensures fair competition and public responsibility.
Methods
During the writing of the work, various methods were used. For example, the comparative legal method, which consists in comparing single-order legal concepts, phenomena, processes and clarifying the similarities and differences between them. Thanks to this method, it becomes possible to identify the general, special and unitary in legal systems. 
The dialectical method of scientific knowledge of the phenomena of surrounding reality, which consists in a system of rules (requirements) formulated on the basis of knowledge of the laws of the studied areas of reality and orienting a person in his cognitively transforming activities. The dialectical method of cognition is studied by dialectical logic. Reflecting the relationship of theory and practice.
As well as statistical, logical and legal, general scientific methods of cognition (induction, deduction, analysis, synthesis, system-structural), etc.
Results anticipated
Based on the analysis of the work of Russian and foreign scientists and practitioners, we can distinguish several significant problems of qualification of tax crimes in the Russian Federation:
- the problem of the lack of a definition of the concept of tax crimes in Russian legislation causes confusion with the attribution of taxes to various crimes, which undoubtedly gives a negative result in the fight against tax crimes;
- the problem of distinguishing between tax crimes and other tax offenses leads to errors of law enforcement agencies and opens the way for corruption and the possibility of evading responsibility in some cases or, conversely, allows illegally tightening liability in others.
An analysis of the rich experience of foreign countries and the accumulated experience of Russian law enforcement agencies allowed the author to outline the contours of a possible transformation of Russian legislation, which should increase the effectiveness of the fight against tax evasion.
Conclusion
Based on the results of a study of the criminal law on tax crimes conducted in this work, we can draw the following conclusions:
1. A tax crime is a guilty, unlawfully committed socially dangerous act aimed at violating the established procedure for levying taxes (fees), the implementation of tax control measures and other norms of the legislation on taxes and fees, for the commission of which criminal liability has been established.
2. Compared with other types of violations of the legislation on taxes and fees, a tax crime is characterized by the following characteristic features: increased public danger; criminal penalties; in addition, only a person can be prosecuted for its commission.

