Introduction
Background. The problem of taxation of small business is one of the important problems of tax law. The mentioned problem was touched upon in numerous articles and dissertations of Russian and foreign scientists. The relevance of the chosen topic lies in the fact that at the present stage, many strive to create their own business, and when choosing such a form of business entity as an individual entrepreneur (small business), citizens should be fully familiar with their chosen tax system, with tax regimes and tax burden, in order to choose form of tax control and the development of their business will depend on this choice.
Problem Statement. The research problem can be formulated as follows: taxation of small businesses can be painless for small businesses in the event that tax legislation is in time to meet the needs of our time, and small businesses have a higher legal awareness in the field of taxation. This all determines the purpose of the study. The purpose of the study is expressed in identifying problems in the taxation of small businesses and in finding ways to solve them. In accordance with the purpose of the study, the following tasks:
To disclose the principles of taxation of individual entrepreneurs;
To identify the place of individual entrepreneurs in tax law;
To identify the features of taxation of individual entrepreneurs;
To identify features of the application of tax regimes;
Identify problems in the taxation of small businesses and find solutions to these problems.
Delimitations of the Study. The study focuses on the nature of taxation of individual entrepreneurs in Russia and abroad, which allows to identify the advantages and disadvantages of certain taxation regimes, the ratio of the tax burden and the correctness of its distribution. Moreover, one of the separators of the study associated with the previous one is the significant difference between foreign and Russian legal systems. And finally, the last distinction is limited access to data on taxation of small businesses, due to the fact that not all foreign works are available online.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project, one of the tasks to be solved is to identify problems in taxing individual entrepreneurs and find ways to solve them. This will allow us to analyze the key factors of taxation, tax burden, tax regimes, and tax legislation policies. To achieve this goal, it will be extremely advisable to analyze the taxation of small businesses abroad in order to be able to compare several legal systems. In addition, it seems important to analyze innovations in tax legislation regarding new and improved tax regimes. The issue under consideration may be of primary interest to various scholars, law students and lawyers who study tax legislation. Since the issue under study is of paramount legal importance, research results are an urgent priority for all those involved in tax law research.
Literature Review
In the study of Shkurova V.A. the problem of the choice of an individual taxation system by individual entrepreneurs is considered. During the study of the writing of the study, the author made the following conclusions:
1) An individual entrepreneur has the right to choose one of five taxation systems.
2) In special tax systems there is no need for accounting and it is possible to carry out settlements without cash registers.
3) DOS is the most difficult tax system to understand, therefore, before choosing it, you must fully familiarize yourself with it.
4) To choose any of the taxation systems in addition to the general taxation system (DOS), small businesses must meet certain criteria. From here we can notice that the right choice of taxation system by an individual entrepreneur, taking into account his activities, allows the entrepreneur to obtain favorable conditions for doing business. A new reading of this study for me was that DOS is the most complex taxation system among legal entities for individual entrepreneurs in Russia. Reporting on DOS is also the most difficult. The positive characteristics of this system include the fact that it can be applied to any type of activity, while other systems are not intended for any type of activity.
At the same time, in the study of Taboyakova D.G. touches upon the problem of applying the general taxation system (DOS) by individual entrepreneurs. The author comes to the conclusion that today, individual entrepreneurs do not choose DOS, because initially they have small business turns, and therefore do not want to pay more for taxes, individual entrepreneurs do not have a large staff, and DOS requires accounting . Individual entrepreneurs also try to choose a certain type of activity that suits the special tax regime they have chosen, in our opinion it is convenient, but not practical. New to me in this study was that, as a rule, large companies are not profitable to work with individual entrepreneurs if they choose a special tax system and do not pay value added tax. At the same time, it is worth noting that the complexity of the DOS is due to the implementation of accounting, since for its introduction it is necessary to keep accounts, fill out declarations, keep a book of accounts and income, and also pay all taxes. Taboyakova D.G. I am sure that despite the fact that DOS is the most complex taxation system, some individual entrepreneurs still choose DOS due to the fact that they are aimed at working with large companies and therefore can afford to pay value added tax. Also, the choice of DOS is due to the fact that this system does not contain restrictions in the choice of activity, as well as in the number of full-time employees, which allows individual entrepreneurs to introduce free and practical activities.
As we have already found out, in addition to the general taxation system (DOS), there are special systems (regimes). So, Balandina A.S. in his study, he considers the advantages and disadvantages of introducing into the tax legislation the patent system of taxation (POS), which is a special tax regime in Russia.
According to the research of A. Balandina, the positive characteristics of PSN include the fact that the payment of several taxes has been replaced by one regime. In addition, the author indicates that when applying PSN, it is possible to combine it with other modes, which include OCH. However, this provides inconvenience, which consists in the fact that the payers will need to keep records of operations, obligations, not only for PSN, but also separately for other modes. The disadvantages of the PSN system are experts keeping a book of income and expenses. If the income from doing business exceeds 60 million rubles, then the right to use the PSN will be lost. Since the activities of individual entrepreneurs are influenced not only by tax regimes, but also by tax legislation in general, T. Vasilyeva, and P. Vasiliev, consider the impact of legislation on the activities of individual entrepreneurs. Thus, the authors conclude that, first of all, when choosing a tax regime, small businesses need to calculate the amount of taxes and contributions that are not dependent on financial activities. Subjects of the Russian Federation with the help of legislation can set tax rates, as well as determine the need for a tax system such as PIT, that is, not every entrepreneur located in one of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation has the right to use PIT. So, before choosing a tax system, an individual entrepreneur must calculate the tax burden. If the business is stable, it is more profitable to use special taxation regimes. If the business is difficult to predict, it is better to choose a simplified tax regime.
Ziyatdinov A.F. conducts a study of the similarities and differences in taxation of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs. The presence of differences in taxation has practical value, which can be considered in two cases:
1) the initial stage of tax planning begins when the business entity chooses the legal form of management, it can be either a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur. The choice will be based on the absolute amount of taxes and fees paid. Naturally, the business entity will strive to ensure that this amount is minimal.
2) State bodies are interested not only in the amount of mandatory payments and taxes, but also in the proportion of the distribution of this amount. In this case, according to the author, it is most beneficial for government bodies at the federal and regional levels to support legal entities (organizations), and local governments - on the contrary, for individual entrepreneurs.
The main differences between small business entities and legal entities are as follows:
individual entrepreneurs are exempt from accounting, while the organization is not.
legal entities are forced to apply the accrual method, which takes into account income and expenses in the period when they occurred, regardless of payment. Individual entrepreneurs always account for income and expenses on a cash basis, which recognizes them after the actual payment.
Another difference is the tax rate. For legal entities this is from 24% to 20%, and the authorities of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation are given the right to reduce this rate by at least 15%. For individual entrepreneurs, the rate is 13% on personal income tax.
Individual entrepreneurs must pay insurance contributions not only for their employees, but also for themselves, while legal entities are not required to do this.
Individual entrepreneurs pay less property tax than legal entities.
The main similarities between individual entrepreneurs and legal entities, the author relates that:
Legal entities and individual entrepreneurs equally calculate and pay personal income tax.
Legal entities and individual entrepreneurs equally pay insurance premiums for compulsory insurance for employees and insurance premiums for compulsory social insurance against industrial accidents and occupational diseases.
Thus, based on this study, we can conclude that the support of public authorities depends on the chosen form of management. In the case of choosing the status of an individual entrepreneur, this person is of greater interest to local authorities, while legal entities are of greater interest to federal and regional authorities. However, in our opinion, this proportion makes it difficult for individual entrepreneurs to carry out their activities, since the support of small businesses, in our opinion, should be voluminous and not only come from local governments and the constituent entity of the Russian Federation in which small businesses operate business. In the study, Demieva A.G. touches upon the problem of the priestly nature of the nature of the individual entrepreneur. In our opinion, the disclosure of the essence of entrepreneurial activity without forming a legal entity through consideration of regulatory sources and highlighting the main elements of legal means that ensure the activity of this special subject of entrepreneurial activity is important in the framework of our project.                    
Demieva A.G. comes to the conclusion that a business entity without a legal entity has a number of distinctive features that differentiate it from other business entities of law, putting it at the junction of the powers of ordinary citizens and commercial organizations. In addition, the status of an individual entrepreneur implies certain privileges in comparison with other commercial organizations, for example, a simplified registration procedure, a simplified taxation system, a simplified accounting and reporting procedure, a special liability procedure for obligations. We agree with Demieva A.G. since the determination of the status of a business entity without  formation of a legal entity has a significant impact on the legislative system of business entities, as an individual entrepreneur, by its legal nature, is a special entity that is not defined in civil law as a separate unit of an economic entity.
The author correctly notes that the lack of a legal definition of “systematicity” in civil law within the definition of “individual entrepreneur” served as the basis for a dispute over this qualifying attribute of entrepreneurial activity.
Methods
Various scientific methods will be used to study the most effective taxation of small businesses for the state and society. The first method is analytical, which allows you to assess the current state of Russian legislation governing tax law, as well as to predict its further development in the framework of taxation of individual entrepreneurs. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and basis of legislation governing the activities of individual entrepreneurs and to determine the legal mechanisms of taxation in this area. The comparative legal method allows for a qualitative comparison between small businesses in the Russian Federation and abroad, of legislative norms in the field of tax policy regulation in order to identify (similarities and differences). Finally, a formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of individual entrepreneurs, interpret them and clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of taxation.
Results Anticipated
A preliminary analysis of works on the problem of taxation of small businesses shows that there will be several results. Analysis of scientific research shows that several factors affect the optimal and convenient taxation for the state and tax business entities. This means that the researchers have different views on the issue under discussion. They believe that effective taxation depends on the correct choice of the tax regime and its application, but I suppose that the problem of taxation should be considered not only from what is written in the Tax Code, but also from the position of the state on this issue. This gives the prospect of developing tax legislation. The results achieved show numerous problems and omissions that complicate the conduct of business by individual entrepreneurs.
A preliminary analysis of the data allows us to outline the results in terms of legislation. The presence of a large selection of tax regimes suggests that small businesses have the opportunity to choose the most convenient regime for themselves and conduct their own business within it. However, the instability of the aggregate tax burden, the use of cash management systems, and the lack of large finances among beginner small businesses lead to dissatisfaction. So, within the framework of our project, approaches to modern requirements in the taxation of small businesses will be revealed.
Conclusion
Summing up the results of this work, we can note that such a task was achieved as to reveal the principles of taxation. Individual entrepreneurs are subject to the general principles of taxation, which are based not only on the interests of the state, but also on the interests of taxpayers. The genesis of the principles of taxation plays an important role, as they developed together with the development of political and social systems. This shows the relationship between the state and society, which in turn is reflected in individual entrepreneurs. The principles of tax law are an important element of the tax system of the Russian Federation as a whole, since thanks to them it is possible to stimulate economic growth and economic activity on an equal, determined and fair basis. At the same time, we were able to identify that although tax law includes what is contained in the principles of taxation, some aspects of these principles are not specified by the legislator, which may cause some inconvenience. At the same time, in the context of modernization, globalization and the development of the political and economic sphere, today there are new principles of taxation that were not previously mentioned. 
This suggests that the institution of taxation is undergoing development and systematization, which in our opinion is positive. The task of identifying the place (position) of individual entrepreneurs in the tax law system was also achieved. Despite the large totality of terminology that tax legislation contains, we were able to identify that individual entrepreneurs are subjects of tax law, taxpayers, subjects of tax legal relations and may be tax agents. In our opinion, an excess of terminology in scientific works and in legislation can cause inconvenience and uncertainty in understanding. For example, the legislator does not prescribe that the subjects of tax law and the subjects of taxation are not identical concepts, nor does the legislator give an interpretation to the concept of “taxation”, although this concept is used about forty times in the first part of the Tax Code. In practice, this aspect confuses individual entrepreneurs when they try to understand tax legislation in order to choose for themselves a particular taxation regime. Also, proceeding from another task, the specific features of taxation of individual entrepreneurs were revealed. The identification of these features did not occur immediately from the consideration of taxation regimes, but from the study of the specifics and characteristics of tax legal relations. 
We were able to identify the disparity of tax law, where any individual entrepreneur can choose for himself the most appropriate tax regimes for his activities. It is worth noting that, despite the whole practical component of the chosen topic, to achieve a complete understanding without studying the theoretical component, and especially without studying the development of tax legal relations. Features of applying tax regimes were also identified, their advantages and disadvantages were considered, an attempt was made to solve the problem of choosing a particular taxation regime. In our opinion, when choosing a taxation regime, first of all, an individual entrepreneur must compare the conditions for carrying out his activities with the restrictions of certain tax regimes. Also, an individual entrepreneur must forecast his activities for the future for the effective development of the business and understand that not every taxation regime will be able to help achieve this development. Thus, an individual entrepreneur, before choosing a taxation regime, must clearly know the goals and objectives of conducting his activities, forecast its future development and take into account all possible risks and payments. In our opinion, this is quite complicated, therefore, the legislator is trying in every way to relax this process, for example, introducing tax holidays for small businesses or otherwise, but the problem remains. Differences in taxation of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs were considered. This was done in order to understand what tax legislation offers to various tax subjects. The status of an individual entrepreneur implies certain privileges in comparison with other commercial organizations, for example, a simplified registration procedure, a simplified taxation system, a simplified accounting and reporting procedure, a special liability procedure for obligations. It turned out that in some cases it is much more profitable for small businesses to form a legal entity than to conduct entrepreneurial activity. At the same time, the benefits of the state and constituent entities of the Russian Federation were considered both in the taxation of small businesses and in the taxation of legal entities. It turned out that the taxation of the first and second in may depend on different bodies of the state. In our opinion, this has practical value in the choice of creating a business through individual entrepreneurship or through a legal entity.

 
