Introduction
Background. In the framework of the project the problem of revealing the nature of the social network account is regarded as one of the most debated issues in civil law and regulation of virtual property. The question is raised in numerous articles by Russian and foreign scholars. There are several approaches to the issue under question:
Firstly, the nature of the social network account is equal to virtual asset and users have ownership rights to their account. 
Secondly, the social network account is a service to users that providers give to them and users have no rights to their account no matter how many intellectual property or business relationship are connected to it. 
These approaches have different meaning to regulation in theory. 
From a scientific point of view, this topic is not well understood and there are many more issues that have not been considered and enshrined in laws. However, the work of K.S. Mityagina, R.M. Yankovsky, A.I. Savelyev and others allow us to form common positions regarding the legal regulation of user accounts of various services.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be expressed as that the regulation of the social network accounts is lack of its base since there are no definition and features of nature of the social network accounts and providers regulate user relationship based on intellectual law by the license contract with user or contract law by terms of service with users. This all defines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to analyze and identify the main problems in the field of the legal nature and legal regulation of accounts of social networks and gaming platforms, and legally fix ways of their use, to offer solutions to the problems identified. According with the purpose of the research the goals are the following:
1) Define the concept of a user account in the framework of the doctrine, civil law of the Russian Federation and foreign law enforcement practice;
2) Disclose the nature of user accounts;
3) To analyze the nature of the license agreement as a way of regulating legal relations between users and administrators of services;
4) Consider ways to protect the rights of users who have accounts of social networks or online games;
5) To propose ways to resolve conflicts arising from the legal regulation of user accounts.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the nature of the social network accounts and the online-games accounts and the possibility of legal regulation of relationship between users and administrators. This determines some difficulties in understanding the concept of relationship since it is appeared in the Internet and users not always understand that any of their actions online may be legally regulated.  Moreover, some elements that are connected to users’ accounts may be valued to the civil law and are defined and objects, but it is far from standard concept as virtual property is not a tangible object as it is considered in Civil code. 
Professional Significance. In the basis of the project he relevance of this work is that users can create accounts and use them for personal purposes, as well as for commercial purposes. According to the 2019 data of the MediaScop research company, 58 percent of the population of the Russian Federation use social networks daily, on average 83 minutes daily. Moreover, more than 38 million people use the VKontakte social network, and 28 million people visit Instagram monthly. World statistics show that on average 3.5 billion people use social networks Facebook, 1.9 billion people use YouTube, 1 billion people use Instagram. These statistics continue to grow in popularity among users.
There are no official statistics on the number of users of online games, however, there are unofficial statistics that claim that by December 2016 the number of players playing MMORPG games exceeded 600 million people around the world. About 300-400 thousand players. 
This statistic is allowed to suggest that the main task of the work is to research the concept of the nature of online accounts. Since the issue studied is of utmost legal and social concern, the research findings are an urgent priority for determine the way to regulate relationships between users and administrators of social networks and online games. 
Literature Review
Researches of social network accounts and online-games accounts revile little understanding of nature of these objects since they are not common for Russian legislation. However, some of the works have not received all the attention they deserve so far. 
The work of Mityagin K.S. “Legal nature of social network account” content the main review of current regulation of social network accounts as a result of intellectual activity. The author compares online accounts with complex object that is regulated in Civil code of Russian Federation. Although the author tells about commercial value of webpages that contains not only personal information of user but expenses and intellectual property that connected to the account. 
The research of Glonina V.N. “Not everything is a license that is called it, problematic aspects of the legal regulation of relations between users and digital services” contains the problems of licensing relationship between users and administrators of webserver. For instance, the administrator can include a provision that require possibility to make the License agreement the main “law” on server that regulate all the rules of using accounts. The author emphasizes to establish the definition of digital space and regulate in its own Federal act rights and obligations of users and administrators seeing the current regulation become irrelevant. 
These thoughts are confirmed in the research of David N. Tan “Owning The World’s Biggest Esport: Intellectual Property And Dota” as he looked through the license agreement of DOTA and discovered that all the relationship on the platform is regulated by administrators and in case of violation of the service rules administrator can block and delete user’s account despite material investments and achievements of user. That is, of course, beyond civil regulation at the moment. 
Foreign studies developed a great base of e-regulation and one of the researches by Shalini Venturelli suggests the comparison of invention of e-regulation around the world. She marks that online resources are helping to build valuable base and is a key aspect of development and consolidation legal mechanisms to protect virtual property, privacy, intellectual property and so on. That is why she claims that countries need to “grow its other multimedia content sectors” so that they can protect intellectual rights and secure the possible future imbalances and inequalities resulting from ill-conceived protection policies of users’ interaction for creative production. 
Afterwards, the work by Cass Sunstein is reviled the “welfare effects of digital goods, including social media”. The author noted that wiliness to pay and wiliness to accept are the same and it is the main reason for social network users to spend more money on their accounts that they enjoy using. Thus, the question on regulating the value of social network accounts is steadily rising and protection of users’ ownership rights are doubtful as the lack of regulation is still exist.  
Moreover, Rebecca Tushnet reviewing the research by Kate Klonick “The New Governors: The People, Rules, and Processes Governing Online Speech” suggests that the key to optimal regulation for platforms is some sort of participatory reform, perhaps involving both procedural and substantive protections for individual users. Namely, the need to regulate the aspects of use of social networks (age limit, un-anonymous user) and content regulation (intellectual and virtual property) has to be regulated no only by government or service administrators but also by user’s initiative to prevent lawless legal protection and unlimited corporate freedom in relation to the user.
In legal studies of Asia Pengfei Ji noted that virtual property may be classified to several categories and one of them is social network accounts, e-mails and online games accounts. These objects may be inherited or sold as property of user, but arbitration function is performed by service administrator and in case of disagreement with him user is lack of jurisdiction protection.
However, Osborne Clarke in his overview of the District court of Paris case notes that EU law is changing towards user protection. The court allowed user to sell the games that they bought before to their account and claimed that the Steam platform terms and conditions should be null in three main grounds: the infringement of consumer protection rules, of personal data protection rules and of intellectual property rules. That is a big step in rethinking the doctrine of exhaustion and wider application of these principles to all intangible goods likely to be resold as second-hand.
Thus, over last decade the scholars’ interest in legal nature of digital account raised since more and more people use social networks and online-games and at some point, create intellectual property or invest monetary actives that makes accounts valuable for the market. The concern for regulation of users’ accounts remains still questionable from the point of view that they consider as a complex object leading to a numerous of questions to regulate separate parts of the general object. None of the present-day works can be defined as a complex study encompassing different levels of digital reality, from separate objects of different branch of law to intellectual right particularly.
Methods
The project uses different scientific methods for examination of the problem of legal nature of social network accounts and online-game accounts. The first method is formal legal method that is required for analysis of legal norms that regulate individual aspects of the problem. Comparative legal method is necessary for overview of national law and foreign law and their comparison in terms of regulation the nature of online accounts. Logical method helps to systematize conclusions made on the basis of the analysis of the problem. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of online accounts and to identify the legal mechanisms. 
These methods contribute to the consideration of the object of the project as an integral complex of interconnected elements with the theoretical and practical analysis of the most complex elements of the nature of users’ accounts. 
Result Anticipation
Preliminary analysis of the words devoted to the problem of definitions of social network accounts and online-games accounts and their legal regulation and data on court, regulation based on courts decisions in period of 2014-2020 years on online accounts and virtual property shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by Mityagin K.S., Yankowsky R.M., Savelyev A.I. reveals that existing regulation of the complex object of intellectual low is enough for determination of legal nature of the research subject. It means that authors have common views on the subject under question. They regard it as a complex object but the legal meaning for users and administrators vary. I infer that the problem of legal nature of social network accounts and online-games accounts should be considered as a complex object and count not only copyrights objects but also virtual property that’s attached to the accounts (SN coins, voices, skins, characters and so on). This gives the perspective of legal protection of users’ rights who owns the account. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of law enforcement. The data is presented by legal scholars and legal cases (name the cases). It shows that court decisions do not have any definition of internet accounts and their opinion is based on existing law does not include any common legal nature of the subject and create collisions in the field. 
All this determines the solution of the problem of legal nature of the internet accounts and this study may play a fundamental role in extension of legal regulation of new objects that take significant place in every users’ life. 
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that the use of online account is steadily growing, and the regulation is needed for users’ relationship and administrator’s activity in the internet recourses. It means that social network accounts and online game accounts need legal regulation and fixation in legal act that contains norms related with regulation of internet relationship and cyber protection of users. This does not follow from previous researches on internet accounts due to the lack of research in this area of law and also due to rapid development of internet relationship.  It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of nature of social network accounts and online-game accounts and also of virtual property that connected to users accounts  because more and more people link their life with online account and not only conduct personal activity but also develop commercial activity and monetize their accounts .
Thus, this study can be regarded as adding to legal regulation of civil relationship by expanding norms of license agreement between users and service administrators.  In the context of developing license agreement, firstly, there are minimal standards for treaty that can solve collisions between parties on this level of regulation, though it should not be the only resolve of existing problem. Secondly, development of the new legal act that contains norms which regulate relationship between users and service administrators can solve lack of regulation of online relationship including nature of internet accounts as it is directed to the online sphere of users’ interaction.  The potential for this research lies, first of all, in enriching the methodology, which can be achieved through comparison of different legal systems and foreign regulation of e-legislation theory application and by incorporating norm of regulation relationship in social networks and online games. As far as nature of online accounts is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analysing possible development of users account and foreseen the possibility of growing accounts into commercial networks as they started development in this area.  The main contribution of this research is placing the study of nature of social network accounts and online games accounts through the practical prism into the field of civil legal studies so far as many users prefer to use their accounts in their daily life and ready to invest in their accounts by buying virtual property that is connected to the accounts. 
The findings are essential for law theory and legal practice.  The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for development of studies in e-legislation field and social network accounts to differentiate online relationship and real relationship, to use proper terminology and to develop regulation in the sphere of e-legislation of civil law. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, legal experts, and law enforcement officials. 
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of online regulation of users’ interaction. Since the project focuses mainly on nature of online accounts and virtual property and relevant literature review, it will follow comparative research designs built on qualitative methods.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of online accounts and virtual property for further study of digital law as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic. 
