Introduction
Background. Interstate disputes have been an integral part of society for many centuries, and the modern era is no exception. Often the results of contradictions between states become wars that bring negative consequences for both sides of the conflict. To prevent these consequences in modern international law, the principle of the peaceful resolution of interstate disputes was developed. Adhering to this principle, states in their interaction put the preservation of peace and international security in the first place. Nevertheless, the application of this principle in practice remains difficult since it is necessary to choose mechanisms that can most effectively resolve the dispute in a particular situation.
No general statistics highlighting the importance of the study was found due to different legal nature of all the methods of peaceful interstate conflict resolution. However, the complexity of practical application of the principle of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes can be traced on the example of the activities of the International Court of Justice. According to the official website of the UN International Court of Justice, for the entire time of its existence, 178 cases were added to the General List, and from 2013 to the present, only 28 cases have been transferred to the court. And as a judge of the UN International Court of Justice Joan Donoghue observes, approximately 3/4 of the judgments of the Court are executed. According to the judge, the main problem of the activities of the UN International Court of Justice and the assessment of its effectiveness lies in its legal nature, which is different from national courts. The jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations extends as far as the states themselves agree to it. Another judge of the International Court of Justice of the United Nations, Peter Tomka, outlines the problem of length of the proceedings. The judge explains that often the parties ask for more time to on each stage on the procedure due to the importance of preservation of peace and international security for them and the whole world. 
Problem Statement. The main problem that the work will focus on is the effectiveness of the principle of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law. The purpose of the study is to analyze the means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes existing in modern international law.
Research Objectives:
1. To determine the essence of the international (interstate) dispute;
2. Consider the historical aspects of the establishment of the principle of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes;
3. To analyze the legal nature and system of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law;
4. Explore the means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes;
5. To study the resolution of interstate disputes in international organizations as a special type of means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes;
6. Consider the practical application of the means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law throughout territorial disputes.
Delimitations of the Study. The study is delimited to the legal peaceful methods of interstate conflict resolution mentioned in international legal documents.
Professional Significance. The significance of the study lies in the fact that the principle of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes is one of the key elements in maintaining international peace and security. The future of the whole society depends on the effectiveness of the application of this principle in practice, since armed conflicts can lead to irreversible consequences both for an individual state and for all mankind. A gradual transition from violent means in interstate relations to peaceful ones will allow all mankind to reach a new level of development.
Literature Review
Practical application of the principle of the peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law has been wildly discussed by many authors. A general overview of the practice of states in the peaceful settlement of international disputes has been given by Abdualla Mohamed Hamza and Miomir Todorovic. To achieve the goal, the authors analyze particular groups in the system of methods for the peaceful resolution of interstate disputes with the study of regulatory legal acts and real examples of interstate disputes. Authors use the formal legal research method to determine existing in the legal doctrine theoretical foundations of the institute for the peaceful resolution of interstate disputes, to study existing practical examples and the legal acts that play a key role in the area of the project.
The conclusion of the article is the fact that in practice political and economic factors often take precedence over legal ones in resolving interstate disputes. It is necessary to be realistic in recognizing the limited role that law plays in many disputes, but at the same time we must support the potential of law.
It is impossible to disagree with the opinion of the authors. The emergence of an interstate dispute is influenced by many different factors, in connection with which it is impossible to resolve this contradiction using only the rule of law. The law should be the basis for the settlement of interstate disputes, however, external factors will in any case affect the effectiveness of the implementation of the methods established by law.
To similar conclusions comes Seán O Regan in his study. The author analyzes peaceful methods of international conflict resolution with their limitations that appear during a practical application. The main method used by the author is comparative as he discusses not only legal issues of the problem but other aspects that develop and solve interstate conflicts as well.
Seán O Regan claims that to rebuild a society in which peace has broken down the international community must apply a full programme of societal transformation to address historical grievance, economic inequality and political disempowerment that usually appear at the heart of almost every international conflict.
The veracity of the author’s position is beyond doubt. If the international community is truly interested in ensuring peace and stability, it must mitigate the causes of the conflict, anticipate the conflict and prevent it if possible. Where this does not work, the international society must be prepared for the conflict, applied the criteria of seriousness of threat, proper purpose, last resort, proportional means and balance of consequences. To stop the conflict we should be ready to intervene with the help of military force including the elimination of the instigators of the conflict. 
However, it is important to mention that the key role in the peaceful interstate conflict resolution anyway plays international law and no other factors and methods applied can not replace legal legislation.
The main principles of international public law are wildly recognized by national laws all over the world and take a special place in the national legal system. To define what role the principles of international law play in the Russian legal system we are planning to analyze The Constitution of the Russian Federation. This legal act is at the top of the hierarchy and it clarifies the place of international law principles in the Russian legal system. The article 15 proclaims the universally-recognized norms of international law and international treaties and agreements of the Russian Federation shall be a component part of its legal system. If an international treaty or agreement of the Russian Federation fixes other rules than those envisaged by law, the rules of the international agreement shall be applied. All in all, this means that the principles of international public law take the second place after The Constitution in the hierarchy and shall be applied prior to the rest of Russian laws.
To analyze the effectiveness of peaceful methods of international conflict resolution it is necessary to apply systematization as a research method. This method makes it possible to divide all the methods into groups according to their similar features and study more effectively. The issue is discussed in the study by Abashidze, A. 
The author’s goal was to analyze the means of peaceful resolution of international disputes existing in doctrine and practice. In the framework of the goal, the author studies the existing approaches to the classification of means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes and explores ways to consolidate the means of peaceful resolution of disputes in international treaties. The legal positions of various researchers from the field of international law and international relations, as well as legal acts in the field of the peaceful resolution of international disputes, have been studied.
As a result of the study, there are three types of means for the peaceful resolution of international disputes: 1) conciliation (negotiations, examination (investigative commissions), mediation, reconciliation (conciliation commissions), good services); 2) international judicial institutions (arbitration and litigation); 3) international organizations. In addition, it was indicated that the third category has a special provision in the system of the methods. Also it is necessary to identify the allocation of three main ways of securing the means of peaceful settlement of disputes in international treaties: 1) general international treaties dedicated to all, several or one means of dispute resolution; 2) a special agreement or compromise, where the parties record the means of dispute resolution they have chosen and detail the conditions for its consideration; 3) special provision (reservation) in various international treaties.
As it was previously mentioned, interstate conflict resolution through international organizations has a special place in the system of the methods of peaceful international conflict resolution. That is why this group of methods needs to be analyzed more detailed. And the effectiveness of its practical application depends on historical development of each particular organization. 
A.V. Suleymanov in his study brings up this issue with the use of comparative-historical approach that allows to reveal positive/negative dynamics of the United Nations performance in the modern society. 
Nowadays, the United Nations make active efforts the escalation of international disputes and their solution when possible. However, the author claims that the most serious problems of the international society remain unsolvable. In modern international law the United Nations play a limited role in the settlement of the international problems. The most parts of the conflicts evade UN resolutions since they only have a recommendatory character. All in all, the United Nations system needs certain reformations to reflect the new needs and realities of the world. For the settlement of such challenging international conflicts it is necessary for all the countries to recognize jurisdiction of the UN ICJ as a possible solution (United Nations International Court of Justice).
Methods
The methodological basis of the study consists of general scientific methods (analysis, synthesis, comparison, analogy, description, classification, statistical and others) and private-scientific (formal-legal, comparative-legal).
General scientific methods will allow the author to study the problem of effectiveness of the principle of peaceful interstate conflict resolution from different perspectives and make a conclusion.
With the use of formal-legal method of research the author will be able to analyze legal documents in the topic of peaceful interstate conflict resolution. The normative legal acts that determine the consideration of the principle of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law are: the UN Charter, the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful Resolution of International Disputes of November 15, 1982 and others. In Russian legal system main legal documents analyzed are The Constitution of The Russian Federation and The Russian Civil Code. All conclusions of the author will be based on the provisions of international legal acts of our time.
Comparative legal method will be used by the author in order to compare legal legislation of different methods of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law. This will allow to see what methods tend to be more effective and what kinds of legal changes and improvements shall be applied.
Results Anticipated
Expected results of the work are the determination of the meaning and the system of the principle of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes in modern international law. Research of practical cases of interstate conflict resolution in the area of territorial disputes is expected to show the effectiveness of the application the system of the principle of peaceful interstate conflict resolution in practice. This principle is an objective necessity in a modern international law since it allows to solve most acute and significant problems for all mankind. However, the author suggests that some existing legal mechanisms of interstate conflict resolution need to be changed and improved since they do not function effectively enough. And apart from that, there is a necessity to improve not only the legislation but involve other aspects of society in order to provide international peace and security.
Conclusion
All in all, the principle of peaceful interstate conflict resolution plays a vital role in modern international law and the society in general. According to the Article 33 of the UN (United Nations) Charter, any dispute that is likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security should first be addressed through negotiation, mediation or other peaceful means, and the Council can call on the parties to use such means to settle their dispute. The system of this principle consists of: 1) conciliation (negotiations, examination (investigative commissions), mediation, reconciliation (conciliation commissions), good services); 2) international judicial institutions (arbitration and litigation); 3) international organizations. 
The history of the principle starts in the end of 19th century. In 1899 by decision of the First Hague Peace Conference was established the oldest organization to resolve international disputes - the Permanent Court of Arbitration. Later on the idea of the use of peaceful means of conflict resolution was applied by the League of Nations but the biggest development this institute have got with the creation of the United Nations. 
The most effective and frequently used means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes are direct diplomatic negotiations and appeal to an international court. However, the United Nations play a limited role in the settlement of the international problems. The most parts of the conflicts evade UN resolutions since they only have a recommendatory character. 
In general, the effectiveness of the application of methods of peaceful conflict resolution between states depends not only on a legal settlement, but also on a number of other circumstances (the political and economic situation in the state, the general state of international relations, and so on). The most effective and frequently used means of peaceful resolution of interstate disputes are direct diplomatic negotiations and appeal to an international court.
