Introduction
Background. The relevance of the study of the powers of the courts of appeal in civil and administrative proceedings is determined by the development of procedural legislation and some shortcomings in the appeal proceedings in civil and administrative cases in courts of general jurisdiction. The appearance of changes in the system of courts of appeal requires an analysis of the effectiveness of the implementation of the powers of the courts of appeal in practice. Trends in improving the efficiency of justice and legal proceedings and strengthening guarantees for the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens and legal entities necessitate the development of proposals to improve civil and administrative procedural legislation, taking into account the main functions and tasks of the court of appeal and providing additional guarantees for persons who appeal to the court for protection violated rights.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: consideration of the current civil and administrative procedural legislation on the powers of courts of appeal of general jurisdiction and on the extent of consideration of cases by courts of appeal; study of the effectiveness of the implementation of this legislation in practice in courts of general jurisdiction. This all determines the purpose of the research. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
1) To consider the classification of powers of the courts of appeal in civil and administrative proceedings and give their characteristics;
2) To analyze the basis for the application of various types of powers in practice;
3) To study the limits of consideration of cases by courts of appeal in a general manner;
4) To study the limits of consideration of cases by courts of appeal in an abridged manner;
5) To analyze foreign experience in terms of regulating the institution of authority of the courts of appeal and the possibility of applying similar standards in Russian procedural law.
Delimitations of the Study. The research focuses on the types of powers of the appellate courts and on the extent of consideration of cases by appellate courts, which allow assessing the degree of effectiveness of the procedural legislation of Russia. More than that one of the delimitation of the study, connected with is the essential the previous one, difference of foreign and Russian legal.
Professional Significance. The practical significance of the research is to increase the efficiency of legal proceedings in the court of appeal and to provide additional guarantees to persons applying for the protection of their violated rights to the court of appeal. In addition, the study and comparison of the institution of powers of the court of appeal in civil and administrative proceedings create the prerequisites for the further implementation of the concept of a unified civil procedure code.
Definitions of Key Terms. The main definition of the research is an «appeal».  Appeal is the activity of the appellate court, initiated by the appeal of interested parties, to verify the legality and validity of court decisions of the trial court that have not entered into legal force by means of a second examination of the merits.
Literature Review
The powers of the courts of appeal in civil and administrative court proceedings in Russia are regulated by the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Procedure respectively.
Both procedure sources determine the list of powers of the courts of appeal. There are such powers of the appeal court as:
1) The court can leave the decision of the trial court unchanged and dismiss the complaint.
2) The court can cancel or change the decision of the court of the first instance and take a new decision of the case.
3) The court can cancel the decision of the court of the first instance and discontinue proceedings.
4) The court can leave the appeal without consideration of the merits..
In contrast to civil proceedings administrative proceedings include another power of the court. The administrative court can cancel the decision of the court and send the administrative case for a new trial to the court of first instance in cases specified by law. 
Despite the fact that the legislation does not provide for a classification of the powers of the court of appeal, some authors consider that it is necessary to highlight it. Morozova A.S. adheres to the following point of view: «depending on the influence exerted on the judicial act of the first instance, powers of the court of appeal are classified into powers related to the activities of the court of first instance and powers related to the activities of the court of second instance».
In addition, many scholars will propose changes to the powers of the courts of appeal in civil proceedings. In accordance with the opinion of  Borisova E.A. additional powers must be introduced by analogy with the Code of Administrative Procedure, namely, the right to cancel a court decision and remand the case for a new trial to the court of the first instance. It is important to note that it is necessary to establish a specific list of cases when the court will apply this authority. This fact will protect citizens from abuse of law by the court.
Morozova A.S. adheres to a similar point of view on the need to include additional powers in the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation, which «is based on an attempt to implement powers through judicial acts of higher courts».
Another important issue in the consideration of the powers of the courts of appeal is the court limits. According to the article of Golodnikova A.I. the limits of a court case include 3 substantive aspects: 
Firstly, it is the establishment of boundaries and the verification of the legality and validity of decisions.
Secondly, it is limiting the ability to present new evidence.
Thirdly, it is the inadmissibility to consider new claims that were not stated in the lower court.
Kotlyarova was involved in the analysis of the types of appeals in her study, which indicated that the main features that distinguish between a full and an incomplete appeal are a second examination of the merits or consideration from the point of view of verifying the legality and validity of the decision; the possibility of submitting new evidence to the court; scope of authority of the court of appeal.
One of the objectives is to compare foreign and Russian legislation. The purpose of the article of Wallas R. Baker is to study the French appeal system. The court of appeal considers issues of substance and questions of the procedure for the actual investigation of the case in accordance with the complaint filed with the court. In general, the author concludes that between France and the United States there are a fairly large number of differences in the legislative regulation of the institution of appeal, therefore, it requires further study on the borrowing of each other's rules.
German law provides for several types of appeals: the first appeal, which considers issues of fact and law, the second appeal, which considers only issues of law. Appeal courts from administrative tribunals in German law differ from civil courts in two aspects: firstly, the principle of an official investigation by the court is applied and the court does not rely on the parties’ arguments, and secondly, the rules of the review contain more stringent conditions. The courts of appeal are bound by evidence provided during the trial by the court of first instance, unless the court of first instance clearly overlooked or mistakenly regarded it as irrelevant.
Pugh Nina Nicholos research concludes that practices of appellate review vary widely among the different civil law jurisdictions. The appellate courts allow sober second thoughts on the original decisions and help avoid victimization of human error and consequently the right of appeal is of primary importance as a fundamental safeguard of justice. Based on a study of the courts of appeal of various countries, the author concludes that the appellate courts in all of the civil law jurisdictions can give final solutions to the legal disputes before them, barring an occasional act of executive interference as mentioned above.
The listed theoretical and legislative framework is relevant for this research project. It is necessary to emphasized that over the last couple of decades the scholar’s interest in the powers of the courts of appeal has been increasing steadily. Authors identify problems of legislative regulation at each stage of the development of powers and suggest ways to improve the law, including by borrowing the practice of foreign states.
Methods
For examination of the powers of the appeal courts, various scientific methods will be used.
The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating the powers of the appeal court in civil and administrative proceedings, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of development of the concept of a unified Civil Procedure Code and progress of a new system of appeal courts of general jurisdiction.
The second method is the interpretation of legal rules, which is used to interpret and analyze civil and administrative law.
The last method is the comparative legal method, which helps to make a qualitative comparison of foreign and Russian legislation governing the powers of the courts of appeal in order to identify similarities and differences. 
Results Anticipated
Results anticipated can be deducted on an analysis of the legislation and theoretical works of Russian and foreign scholars’ investigating the powers of the courts of appeal. According to the study of scientists, it is necessary to create uniform provisions in all procedural legislation. Thus, the civil procedure code must be supplemented with additional powers of the courts of appeal, namely, the right to annul a court decision and refer the case for a new trial to the court of first instance. It is assumed that the borrowing of foreign regulation is possible only in countries with similar legal systems. On the basis of this, Russia can adopt the experience of Germany and France in regulating the institution of courts of appeal of general jurisdiction.
The amendments to be proposed in the study will solve the practical problems of exercising the powers of the appellate courts and help to strengthen citizens' confidence in the judicial system of the Russian Federation.
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that it is necessary to amend the institution of the powers of the courts of appeal. It involves the use of the experience of the legislation of the arbitration courts of the appellate court of the Russian Federation, the conclusions of judicial practice and the borrowing of the experience of foreign countries of the Romano-German legal family. First of all, serious attention should be paid to the possibility of including in the Code of Civil Procedure of the Russian Federation a new court power with the aim of creating a unified regulation of the institution of courts of appeal. Secondly, it is necessary to pay attention to the study of the conditions for the application of various types of powers of the courts of appeal in practice.
However, the given research of scientists does not take into account the latest changes in the legislation regarding the institution of appeal that occurred in 2019. Therefore, to solve the tasks and improve effectiveness of the powers of the courts of appeal it is necessary to take into account the new provisions of the law.
The data obtained are necessary for the theory of law and for practicing lawyers. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for students of law schools to use a certain authority under several conditions. Also it can have significant practical implications for lawyers who defend the rights of individuals and legal entities in courts of appeal.
To sum up, I would to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of powers of the courts of appeal, since the studies obtained make a great contribution to increasing citizens' trust in justice and increasing the efficiency of legal proceedings.
