Introduction
Background. The problem of execution of a mediation agreement is considered one of the most vital issues in Russian practice. The issue mentioned was addressed in articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question in Russian legislation: the mediation agreement reached as a result of the mediation procedure carried out after the trial in court may be approved by the court as a settlement and a mediation agreement reached as part of a mediation procedure conducted without submitting a dispute to a court may gain the strength of an executive document with notarization. Both of these approaches have a guarantee of execution of a mediation agreement in common, but their main difference is the binding method.
Due to the sufficient novelty of the mediation institute for Russian law, the coverage of this topic is relatively small: there is a number of scientific papers devoted to the problems of out-of-court settlement of disputes, including the works of S. I. Kalashnikova, A. D. Karpenko and A. D. Osinovsky. However, the relevance of the issue gives reason to expect an increase of interest in the study of mediation and the emergence of new scientific papers.
Another aspect of mediation, which makes the concept of this institute stand out among other legal matters, is the legal status of mediator. According to the law, mediators can be persons who carry out this activity on a professional basis and on a non-professional basis. In addition, retiring judges can also work as mediators on a professional basis. The problem of requirements for a mediator is widely discussed. Many scholars consider it expedient to legislate the possibility of conciliation procedures exclusively by professional mediators.
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: a considerable experience has been gained in introducing conciliation procedures with the assistance of a mediator in various legal systems. In many foreign countries mediation exists and is used as a special form of dispute settlement, along with and in conjunction with litigation. Unfortunately, in Russian law this practice remains insufficiently explored. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to analyze the institution of mediation as an alternative way to resolve disputes. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
1. To study the concept of mediation as an alternative way to resolve disputes in Russian law;
2. To analyze the principles of dispute settlement with the participation of a mediator (mediator) in Russian law;
3. To consider the concept and principles of mediation as an alternative way to resolve disputes abroad;
4. To conduct a comparative legal analysis of the procedure for conducting mediation as an alternative way to resolve disputes in Russian law and abroad;
5. To study the legal status and role of the mediator as a subject of the mediation procedure;
6. To analyze the features of the application of the mediation procedure for disputes arising from private law and public law relations in the Russian Federation.
Delimitations of the study. The research project is focused on the different approaches to the nature and principles of mediation applied in different countries and legal systems which allow to systematize and identify the optimal paradigm for the Russian legal system in matters of mediation dispute resolution. More than that the recent legislative consolidation of judicial mediators determines difficulty in determining their legal status relatively with mediators. Finally, one of the delimitation of the study is the essential difference between private law and public law regulation of public relations established in the Russian legal system. The paper is aimed to resolve the issue of the possibility of applying the mediation procedure to resolve public disputes.
Professional Significance. The issue under question will be of utmost interest for various scholars, students of law faculties, notaries and lawyers who investigate and apply conciliation procedures in practice. Since mediation is increasingly being used as one of the effective non-jurisdictional methods of dispute resolution, the research findings are an urgent priority for all those who are engaged in civil law studies, and law enforcement activities includingg lawyers, notaries and civil servants. 
Definitions of Key Terms. According to the article 2 of the Federal Law "On an Alternative Procedure for the Settlement of Disputes with the Participation of a Mediator (Mediation Procedure)" №193-FZ “mediation procedure” is a method of resolving disputes with the assistance of a mediator on the basis of the voluntary consent of the parties in order to achieve a mutually acceptable solution.
“Mediation” agreement is an agreement reached by the parties as a result of applying the mediation procedure to a dispute or disputes, to individual disagreements on a dispute and concluded in writing.
“Mediator” is an independent individual involved by the parties as mediators in the settlement of a dispute to assist in the development by the parties of a resolution on the merits.
Literature review
S. I. Kalasnikova focuses on the problem of determining the concept of mediation and the place of this institution in Russian law and legislation, explores the problems associated with the organization and conduct of the mediation procedure, focusing on certain areas of mediation integration in the activities of jurisdictional bodies in the settlement of various categories of civil disputes. When considering the stated problems, the author relies on general scientific and special legal methods, in particular, systemic, historical-legal, formal-legal. Analyzing the doctrine, models of legal regulation and the practice of mediation in foreign countries the scientist uses the comparative legal method. 
S. K. Zagainova uses the comparative legal method in her work. On this basis she gives the general features and differences of mediation and amicable agreements, as well as their procedural consequences. The study concludes that if the dispute is pending in the court, a mediation agreement does not automatically give rise to procedural consequences, does not acquire the features of a settlement agreement. A mediation agreement can be transformed into an amicable agreement by virtue of certain conditions: the subject of mediation is identical in whole or in part to the subject of legal proceedings (both in essence and in volume); the will of the parties of the mediation procedure to approve the terms of the mediation agreement as an amicable agreement is expressed in writing; the subjective composition of the amicable and mediation agreements is identical. It should also be noted that the settlement of agreements is considered as one of the possible forms of ending the trial if the dispute settled in mediation was the subject of judicial review. 
Based on a comparative legal analysis of the requirements for theoretical and practical training of family mediators in some countries, including those where the legislation provides for a mandatory pre-trial informational meeting with a mediator in a number of categories of disputes, as well as mediator skills and behavior standards systematized by the International Institute of Mediation, N. I. Gaidaenko-Sher comes to the conclusion that it is necessary to develop special, clearly formulated and justified requirements for mediators in the region and family legal relations, taking into account the social significance of this area of ​​specialization and the vulnerability of parties to family conflicts. The author assumes that it is possible to expect in Russian law the abolition of the concept of "unprofessional mediator", the introduction of registers for specialization. However, in her opinion, the legislator also needs to establish increased requirements for the practical training of mediators-specialists in family disputes. 
А. A. Belyakov connects the problem of the non-proliferation of conciliation procedures involving mediators with the imperfection of the legislation governing mediation. The candidate of legal sciences considers it reasonable to introduce the institution of judicial mediation, in accordance with the draft law “On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation in Connection with the Improvement of Conciliation Procedures”. 
Substantiating the ideas of forming the Russian national model of conciliation procedures, based on the development of private and integrated models of mediation and negotiations S. K. Zagainova considers it appropriate at the legislative level to provide for the possibility of contacting a mediator not only at the pre-trial stage, at any stage of the judicial process, including the verification of judicial acts, but also within the framework of enforcement proceedings, since despite the fact that legal relations have become certain, this does not always mean that the relations between the people involved in them are indisputable, conflict-free. 
A.V. Barinov and E.S. Kiryanova, analyzing judicial practice in family matters, come to the conclusion that the most contentious family disputes resolved by the courts include divorce by spouses with minor children, and disputes, associated with the consequences of the dissolution of such a marriage. Guided by the high rates of practice of applying the reconciliation procedure by making an amicable agreement, A.V. Barinov and E.S. Kiryanova assume that the settlement of such conflicts should first of all occur outside the official court procedure, through an alternative dispute resolution procedure involving a mediator (mediation procedures). They propose the introduction of posts of state family mediators in the state of guardianship and trusteeship bodies, the payment for which will be set on the basis of fixed tariffs in each subject of the Russian Federation. 
U.B. Filatova and A.S. Arkhipkina’s paper contains the following suggestions: to fix the principle of professionalism of a mediator in the Federal Law "On an Alternative Procedure for the Settlement of Disputes with the Participation of a Mediator (Mediation Procedure)" in order to popularize and strengthen confidence in conciliation procedures; to increase control over the quality of the services provided by mediators for alternative dispute resolution, to protect the rights of potential consumers of services by allowing a mediation procedure to be carried out only by mediators who are members of self-regulatory organizations; to set forth in the Order of the Ministry of Education of the Russian Federation, which approves the program for training mediators, the norm on the possibility of teaching mediation only by persons who have successfully passed the final certification under the program "Mediation. Training course for mediation trainers." Grant the right to carry out educational activities in the field of mediation exclusively to educational organizations accredited or certified by self-regulatory organizations of mediators or the Federal Institute of Mediation. 
Federal Law 193-FZ “On an Alternative Dispute Resolution with the Participation of an Intermediary (Mediation Procedure)” creates a legal condition for establishing an alternative procedures of dispute resolution with the participation of an independent person – mediator. The legal act of the Russian Federation is aimed to foster the development of partnership business relations and formation of business ethics. Harmonizing of social relationships is an issue of current interest.
C.  distinguishes between mediation models: Facilitative mediation, which involves mediation, structuring the process to assist the parties in reaching a mutually acceptable solution, and Evaluative mediation, during which the mediator structures the process and directly affects the outcome of the mediation. In the first model of mediation, the mediator is responsible for the process, while the parties are responsible for the result. The valuation mediator, according to the author, can give the parties formal or informal recommendations on how to solve problems, that is, valuation mediation is based on legal concepts of justice. 
А different approach to mediation is described by T. Hansen. Narrative mediation in his work is a special kind of mediation, the essence of which is to separate the individual from history, narrative. This method of mediation is based on the postmodern philosophy of social constructivism and is one of the areas of narrative practice. in accordance with the provisions of narrative psychotherapy, which served as the basis for the development of narrative meditation, people live and develop, relying not on reality directly, but on their vision of what is happening, formed in the process of development, upbringing, experience of the individual. The metaphor of storytelling in narrative mediation helps the parties to understand that the conflict is not between themselves, but their vision of a specific situation contradicts. 
Dr. F. Steffek cites the Netherlands as an example of successful institutional implementation of mediation. Judging by the experience of the Netherlands, judges are trained to determine the mediaability of a private dispute. In each case, the judge receives the necessary data from a brief questionnaire filled out by the parties. This questionnaire allows you to identify the so-called indicators of mediation. If the court, on the basis of such a questionnaire, comes to the conclusion about the possible success of mediation, it sends the parties to an information meeting with the mediator. 
According to M. Tsur, the standardized form of mediation agreement for all intermediaries is not so effective and actually contradicts the essence and spirit of the process, since the written form of the agreement does not always guarantee the success of the conciliation procedure. The media agreement should come from the mediation process itself, as the term “agreement” (and not “agreement”) reflects the joint efforts of all parties. 
Alexander suggests analysis of four main world approaches to the definition and implementation of mediation: mediation as the market-contract, self-regulatory, formal framework and formal legislative approaches. Her work substantiates the optimal type of mediation, combining all of these approaches. The Mediation Mix aims to determine which aspects of mediation should be regulated and which are left to self-regulation. 
Methods
For examination of mediation as an alternative way to resolve disputes, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating mediation procedures, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of the Russian legal system. The functional method will be used to determine the grounds and principles of the legislation on governing the activity of mediation in Russian Federation. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of Russian and foreign legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of such an alternative way to resolve disputes as mediation in order to identify similarities and differences, to identify the necessary measures to improve Russian legislative regulation. Furthermore, the comparative legal method is used while determining the possibility of using mediation in resolving public disputes in Russian legislation. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of participants in the mediation process, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of mediation.

Results anticipated
It can be concluded from the preliminary analysis of the works by Russian and foreign scholars that there are four main world approaches to the definition and implementation of mediation: mediation as the market-contract, self-regulatory, formal framework and formal legislative approaches. Russian legal system adheres to a formal framework. When analyzing the principles of mediation proclaimed in different countries, it is possible to assume that they all operate in approximately the same framework and are similar in the Russian Federation.
It is assumed that the practice of mediation in Russia will expand not only in relation to the number of procedures but also within various legal relations.
Conclusion
The modern formation and development of civil democratic society reveals an increasing interest of participants of legal relations in independent settlement of disputes. In recent decades, mediation has increasingly been used as one of the most effective non-jurisdictional methods of dispute resolution.
Reconciliation of the parties in the early stages of the process and before it begins, entails a reduction in the number of cases heard by the courts, a reduction in the burden on the courts and, as a result, ensures an improvement in the quality of justice being administered. Furthermore, mediation along with state (jurisdictional) methods of protecting rights guarantees the citizens’ constitutional right to choose the most appropriate option to resolve a dispute or resolve a conflict, based on the interests of the parties. Finally, due to its flexibility and dispositiveness, mediation allows the parties to work out the optimal solution to the problem that has arisen, contribute to the strengthening of friendly, partnerships, the formation of a culture of peaceful and constructive independent resolution of conflict situations by participants in legal relations.
The potential for this research lies, first of all, in improvement of legislation on mediation in the Russian Federation. As far as the possibility of applying the mediation procedure to the resolution of public law disputes is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analysing foreign experience.  The main contribution of this research is placing the study of public mediation through the Russian legislation prism into the field of native studies. 
The findings are essential for both law theory and legal practice.  The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, to use proper terminology in the sphere of mediation. The study may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing notary and lawyers, legal experts, and law enforcement officials. 
To sum up, the project proposal attempts to develop the area of legislative regulation in the field of mediation for further study of especially Russian scholars as the findings contribute to empirical literature on this topic.
