Introduction
Background. Nowadays maintaining effective competition among legal entities is one of the key aspects of successful economic development. As a result of carrying out activities by several companies on a particular product market the struggle for supremacy occurs among them. Currently one of the main instruments that may serve to this purpose is the trademark of a particular legal entity. In addition the associative bonds establish between the company and loyal customers with the assistance of individualization signs.
However it is important to reveal the issues connected with a tendency of copying the trademark that became famous among the customers. As a result it reveals the legal phenomenon called «unfair competition». Moreover as legal practice reveal, copyright holders abuse their rights in relation to trademarks quite frequently. Consequently the issue of unfair competition and the abuse of right in relation to trademarks has become an urgent priority.  This project will demonstrate the legal nature of these two branches of law and describe the correlation between them. In spite of numerous attempts at analyzing the legal nature of such phenomenon the problem in their definition did not disappear.
Problem statement. Currently the majority of researches considered the two branches as equal. Consequently in practice the liability is not divided. The core aim of the present research is to define legal nature of the two branches of law – unfair competition and the abuse of right in relation to trademarks, and to define the correlation between them. 
Therefore to achieve this purpose the following aspects will be examined:
1. Determination the various points of view of scholars on this topic
2. Investigation the legislative enactments and the legal precedents
3. Define the cases, comprised by these branches of law
Professional significance. The issue under consideration can be important for all those who are engaged in the sphere of unfair competition law, such as local branch of the Office of a Fair Trade. Also this issue may be essentially relevant to the judgments and lawyers, whose practical activities are connected with this sphere in order to better understanding the legal nature the two branches of law. Also the research may assist them to divide the liability in case a tort under this law occurs. 
Delimitations of the study. The research will be limited by the legal precedents, since the Office of a Fair Trade’s practice is not publicly available. 
Moreover, although it is essential for practice to be aware of remedies in relation to trademark torts, the research will not involve these aspects. 
Literature review
A large body of literature on unfair competition and the abuse of right in relation to trademark provides a basis for the current study. This section will observe both theoretical and practical aspects in this field. Specifically it is necessary to refer to common aspects of these two branches of law in Russian Federation. Golikova O.V. gives the theoretical view on correlation and cooperation of these two branches. In her studies she claimed that numerous attempts have been made with the aim to define legal nature of these two legal phenomena.  However in theory the scientist did not stay away to the united opinion about the correlation of abuse of right and unfair competition.
Nevertheless in practice unfair competition law absorbs the action of abuse of right frequently. The courts actually don’t divide these institutions, since the aim of claimant is to defend property interest as a result of illegal trademark using. As a result unfair competition law unites the two branches. From the point of views of courts they do not take into account the differences in types of liability.
In addition to Golikova’s study, Gorodisskaya is one of the scholar, who does not distinguish these legal branches. In her studies she defines the cases, which may be comprised by unfair competition law generally. The commonest case in judicial practice of Russian Federation is when the defendant registers the trademark in spite of he/she knew that the other company legally used the trademark without such registration and the trademark had already acquired popular among customers. However the claimant need to prove that defendant had the intention to take advantage of reputation and recognition of disputed trademark. Another thing need to be proved is that competitive relationships have developed between the sides at the time of bringing a sue. 
Another action of unfair competition in relation to trademark is aimed to diminish legal protection of trademark. In such cases the claimant sues with the purpose of enforcement the defendant to sign away the right of using trademark.
In this paper we also explore the legal nature the abuse of right in relation to trademark and unfair competition in other countries. First we should reveal, that the legal branch «the abuse of right in relation to trademarks» is generally absorbed by the trademark law in the Western governments. Also we should investigate how the two branches of law correlate with each other. In order to undertake this part of study we should refer to the work dedicated to evolution of trademark law and unfair competition law. In the USA the appearance and development of trademark law was determined by the necessity of business in protection their trademark and reputation in the trade. With the advent of unfair competition doctrine it became evident that the damage from copying the identification evidence of the plaintiff was equivalent to «diminution of his business due to defendant’s trading on his reputation».
According to this approach the unfair competition law involves the trademark law, as trademarks and the right of their exploitation are regarded as property rights. Actually, the proposed approach seems to be debatable, since the types of the liability under each of the law differ.
More precise issues to the division between two branches of law are addressed by Steeve Malin and Nabeel Khan, who compared several acts, related to the system of trademark protection. They declare that Federal and State anti-dilution laws can protect the abuse right in relation to trademark. In addition to that the owner, who’s right on trademark was infringed, can assist itself in seeking legal remedies under unfair competition common law.
Their investigation deals with case Moseley v. V Secret Catalogue Inc, which places a vital role in this research. In this case another company illegally used the Victoria’s secret trademark. The complainant suited the plaintiff seeking several claims: «trademark infringement under federal law; (2) unfair competition under federal law; (3) dilution in violation of the Federal Trademark Dilution Act (FTDA); and (4) trade- mark infringement and unfair competition under Kentucky common law». However the supreme court rejected all the claims since disputable trademarks were not similar enough to be confused. In addition, the court found that plaintiff did not prejudice the company.
In this research the authors were reflecting, whether anti-dilution laws of different levels or unfair competition laws could be alternative methods to protect the Trademark. The results obtained by the authors suggest that anti-dilution statutes of several states resemble federal law: if the probability of confusion trademarks is absent the trademark dilution does not occur. As for unfair competition laws «common law does not provide protection of a trademark in the absence of a likelihood of confusion». Accordingly to this point of view, the trademark would be protected under these two branches of law only in case the likelihood of confusion is present.
One of the main researches found during the process of literature selecting was the work by Catherine M. (2015). The author regard generally how intellectual property rights correlate to competition principles. These two institutions of law have identic objectives: «encourage innovation, industry and competition». Moreover the two main bodies in the USA and the European Union, U.S. Federal circuit and European Commission, consider that these two branches of law in fact complement each other in regulation legal relationships. However Catherine M. also reveals that every country regulates intellectual property right claims in a different way, resulting in opposite approaches in resolving such conflicts. For instance, in the USA the courts of distinct jurisdictions are not bind of applying the proceedings of each other. In addition, claims of unfair competition are separated from intellectual property claims. As a consequence various courts may adjudicate controversially arising from the same object of disputes. In the European Union, despite the fact the local authorities of the Union’s members and the European commission collaborate with each other on the issue of intellectual property claims and unfair competition claims, still they did not stay away to equal summary of court rulings. 
It is also practically assured that the globalization and integration of economy process make the cooperation between intellectual property law and competition law even more essential. As previous researches had revealed, the unfair competition law and the abuse of right in relation to trademarks are not distinguished generally. However we agree that unfair competition law is aimed at protection the property interest and the abuse of right protects generally trademark and reputation of the company in the trade. Moreover, the governments develop different approaches to this issue domestically. As a result it became complicated to develop a united settlement of disputes on an international level.
We must underline, that the countries should cooperate on the question of distinguishing the two branches of law.
Methodology
In this section of the project proposal we will observe the methods, which are going to be applied in the present study. Taking into account that the current research is at the design phase, the methodology to a certain extent is a developing one, which will be formed in the process of investigation.
The present research is qualitative – it will deal with primary secondary data, which includes the legislative enactments and the legal precedents. At this stage a variety of cases has not been defined, but it is anticipated to investigate legal practice throughout Russian Federation. The application of this method includes several steps. Firstly, the analyzed legal acts will be compared with the aim to identify relevant aspects and to define legal nature of the two legal branches – unfair competition and the abuse of right in relation to trademarks. Secondly we will select legal precedents, which were considered in the courts of Perm Territory with the purpose to reveal law violation statistics covered this region. Then the collected cases will be compared with legal precedents throughout Russian Federation. As a result of globalization and integration of economics in contemporary world the third step will comprise the analysis of international acts and intergovernmental agreements concerning the rulemaking and resolving private torts in this sphere of legal relationships.
Since the data has been collected, the appropriate research method is needed to reveal the content of the two legal branches. To achieve this aim the general-logical methods and formal-legal method will be applied in this research, such as analysis, deductive method and others. Since one of the purpose of current research is to define correlation between the two branches of law we will also use the comparison method in relation to the collected data.
The results anticipated
In the final part of the proposed research the expected results will be obtained with the methods mentioned above. It may be expected that present investigation may provide support to the hypothesis that unfair competition law has a different legal nature in comparison with the abuse of right in relation to trademarks. In addition this part of the project proposal is designed in accordance with specific research questions, described in Part 1. Firstly, it will carefully analyze the types of consideration on the subject and select the most essential approaches; it then will investigate legal practice with the aim to select the cases, which will be the basis for theoretical conclusions. As Western governments distinguish unfair competition torts and the tors, connected with the dilution of trademark, it will be expected that in our research we will prove the necessity to distinguish the two legal branches.
The anticipated deliverables will be carefully controlled. The data concerning practical part will be presented in tables and statistics and the other results will be stated in the narrative text.
Conclusion
In summary we may confirm that the undertaken study have revealed the issue of distinguishing the two legal branches and the necessity of their division. The main anticipated results deduce that the legal nature of unfair competition law differs from the abuse of right in relation to trademarks and, consequently, the liability also differs. Also we agree that unfair competition law is aimed at protection the property interest and the abuse of right protects trademark and reputation of the company in the trade. Generally, the proposed research may be regarded as an attempt to alter the conventional focus on legal nature of these two branches and their correlation.



8


