Introduction
The study deals with the problem of the commission of corruption crimes. The purpose of this work is to identify criminological and criminal aspects of bribery, which will help to further shape the identity of the corrupt and the reasons for the commission of this type of crime. Research is carried out within the framework of criminal law. Research is expected to lead to an in-depth understanding of the nature of the causes of corruption crimes. The results can be used to further study corruption offences in other aspects, for example by looking at them by individual subjects of conviction.
Background. The problem of bribery is considered one of the most controversial and vital issues in Russia 's history. The mentioned issue was touched upon in numerous articles and theses of Russian and foreign scientists. There are two main approaches to the issue under consideration: increasing the penalties for corruption offences and a complete revision of the criminal law to regulate this type of crime more formally. Both approaches are aimed at improving Russian criminal legislation. However, the main difference is the scope of the necessary changes. 
Another aspect of corruption offences concerns the amendment of administrative legislation, namely the exclusion from the administrative code of bribery for legal persons. This is a fact of paramount importance, since modern legal research shows that bribery must be considered as a crime rather than an offence. Previous studies do not seem to have a comprehensive approach that could deliver all the varied accounts. On the commission of corruption offences.
Problem Statement. The problem of the study can be formulated as follows: bribery should be treated as an offence, not an offence, as stated in the Administrative Code. In addition, a comprehensive study of the criminal and criminological aspects will prove the need to increase the penalty for this crime in view of its increased public danger. All this determines the purpose of the study. The aim is to find out new ways to counter corruption and proposals to improve the criminal legislation of Russia. According to the aim of the research, the objectives are:
Examine the current state of corruption in Russia.
Explore the determinants of corruption crime.
Identify possible measures to prevent corruption.
Make proposals to anti-corruption legislation.
Delimitations of the Study. The study focuses on the nature of corruption crimes, its criminological and criminal aspects, which allow to identify it and find a measure against it, as well as to predict a measure to prevent it. This identifies some difficulties in interpreting different approaches to the concept of corruption and distinguishing the offence from other similar misbehaviour in the criminal sphere on the basis of an analysis of the offence. Moreover, one of the delimitations of the study related to the previous one is the significant difference between foreign and Russian legal systems. Finally, the latest delimitation is limited access to corruption crime data in view of their heightened public and state danger. It should be noted that the jurisprudence on this type of crime is significantly truncated, and the name of criminals, as well as the volume of theft is concealed.
Professional Significance. Within the framework of the project, the first tasks to be solved are to analyze the concept of corruption crimes in Russian and foreign legal systems in order to distinguish between commonalities and differences in approach to different legal systems. This will allow to analyze the key factors of bribery and develop the criteria for its identification and evaluation. In addition, it is necessary to study the opinion of foreign authors on the state of corruption crime in Russia for the most objective assessment of reality. In order to achieve this goal, it is essential to classify the types of counteraction and measures to prevent corruption crimes advocated by various researchers. In addition, it would be particularly useful to review the articles of the Criminal and Administrative Codes on corruption and related offences in order to formulate possible measures to effectively prevent bribery in Russian legislation.
The issue in question may be of primary interest to various scholars, law students and lawyers who investigate the variability of the causes and consequences of corruption crimes, as links will be established between existing legal knowledge of the crime in question and its actual practice. As the issue under study is of paramount legal and social importance, research findings are an urgent priority for all those involved in the study of criminal and administrative law, as well as law enforcement, including lawyers, police officers, detectives and investigators.
Literature review
The current state of corruption crimes in Russia is inextricably linked to the quality of its regulatory regulation. For qualitative analysis of bribery we plan to analyze the works of legal scholars, which characterize the criminal legislation of Russia in the field of commission of corruption crimes. 
A.V. Vorobyev in his study talks about corruption crime in local self-government bodies as a social phenomenon representing a set of illegal, as well as socially dangerous attacks on the procedure established by the state for organizing the activities of local self-government bodies. Officials use official position in the commission of this type of crime, which causes a negative impact on the situation of both local self-government bodies and citizens of the State, as the commission of this type of crime distorts the performance of officials 'powers due to self-interest or personal interest. The author claims that combating corruption is not only about improving the criminal legislation of Russia, but also about developing a set of measures to prevent this type of crime. It is necessary to develop organizational and preventive measures to combat corruption in local self-government bodies. 
Backley’s research starts with the historical development of corruption in Russia, indicating that this phenomenon occurs, starting with the works of classics and is a discussion topic in the publications of famous tabloids. The author notes that Russia ranked 131 among all countries in 2018 on the corruption perception index, placing the state on an equal footing with Guatemala and Nigeria. The author states that, in one way or another, all States face a negative phenomenon such as corruption, but there are quite a few States in which corruption is so firmly embedded in the collective consciousness as in Russia. Corruption developed with post-Soviet Russia itself.
V.V. Rudenko points out that corruption is no longer a problem of individual states - it is a problem of planetary scale, which needs to be combated together. International organizations should give the necessary attention to the problem. For example, through its resolutions, the UN General Assembly has approved a number of documents that are aimed at the international fight against corruption. The most landmark, according to the author, is the United Nations Convention against Corruption, the purpose of which is to prevent, investigate and prosecute corruption offences, as well as arrest and confiscation as a punishment of the commission of the above-mentioned crimes.
Y. G. Ershov says that the main problem of modern Russia is that society is not modern and modernized, which inexorably entails the preservation of archaic foundations and order. Feeding officials from their posts is a tacit rule rather than a blatant exception. A departure from the established system, according to the author, is impossible to date, as it is extremely unfavourable to the ruling elite, who fear the possible loss of their power.
Popov's research begins with an analysis of statistics on the detection of corruption crimes. Thus, in 2016 33 thousand corruption crimes were identified, and in 2017 - 29.6 thousand. The author believes that not only the phenomenon of corruption itself, but also the reaction of the population to these informal and illegal practices is interesting for the study. It is noted that public opinion in 2019 is inclined to the fact that the state is sufficiently effective in combating corruption crimes, but 2/3 of those interviewed continue to believe that the level of corruption in Russia remains very high.
The author begins his research by talking about how important the level of education is to the individual. It defines the range of needs of the individual, his interests, ambitions, and is also inextricably connected with the forms of human response to all kinds of life situations. With regard to bribery in the field of education, it should be noted that higher education is often present in all subjects of this type of crime. In addition, it is not uncommon for persons receiving bribes to possess academic degrees. Those who receive bribes are traditionally classified as "intellectual" criminals, most often they have a good education, a large range of interests and are respected in society.
О.В. Badryanovа in his study highlights the problem of legislative inaccuracy in the definition of corruption. Although the legislator gives a fairly broad notion of corruption, its practical utility is extremely small. The author of this study believes that this definition replaces the concept of "corruption" with the concept of "corruption-related crimes," which turns the said norm into a technical one with indirect references.
In order to obtain the most objective concept of the phenomenon of corruption, the author of the study proposes to turn to foreign experience, namely to the legislation of the People 's Republic of China. Chapter 8 of the Criminal Code of the People 's Republic of China contains a list of such crimes as embezzlement, misappropriation, transfer of public and state property, giving and receiving bribes. It should be noted that the norms of the criminal legislation of the People 's Republic of China bear the same moral background, but does not mention the phenomenon of "corruption".
The author of the study talks about the reasons for the low corruption of U.S. public bodies. His reasoning is based on historical analysis of the emergence of the United States as a state. The author believes that modern developing countries with corrupt governments need to learn how the United States has eliminated systematic corruption. The structure of American constitutions was shaped by the need to implement a balanced government. Conflicts and debates over the introduction of balanced government dominated the political agenda until the 1840s, when states began to push regulatory policy firmly toward open entry and free competition. By the 1890s, systematic corruption essentially originated from political discourse. By then, corruption had acquired a modern meaning: the idea that economic interests corrupt the political process.
The low wages of public officials have long been regarded as one of the root causes of corruption among public officials. Underpaid public servants seeking to make ends meet or earn income comparable to that of their private sector counterparts may be inclined to accept bribes in exchange for favors, Thus, increasing the remuneration of public officials is a key element of anti-corruption strategies in many countries. Most legal scholars deny the relationship between wages and corruption of the State, but the author of the study supports this position.
The article considers corruption as an integral feature and engine of the Russian economy. The main causes of corruption are related to the nature of Russian privatization, existing mechanisms of government appointments and career advancement, as well as the lack of control over resources in the implementation of economic policy. Corruption is seen as a multi-level phenomenon covering the entire vertical of the economy, including government decision-making, business functioning and household activities. Systematic analysis of the spread of corruption and successful experience of other countries allows to propose a set of measures to combat corruption in Russia. Special attention is paid to the formation of state, corporate and public anti-corruption institutions.
The author talks about the consequences of corruption. Systemic corruption poses a threat to Russia 's security, capital flight (more than $38 billion in 2010 alone), and lack of investment, particularly important in the non-primary sector, makes Russia a commodity appendage, not a commodity. Only the West, but China too. Three hundred thousand people a year emigrate from Russia, mainly entrepreneurs, specialists, educated young people, killing business activity in the country. Monopolization of the economy, its concentration in the hands of the ruling elite leads to a sharp rise in the prices of goods and services and a decline in the standard of living of people. The dependence of the courts on the executive branch leads to total lawlessness. People are denied all rights. Colossal corruption is pushing Russia into the third world. One cannot even think of modernization or innovation when corruption prevails in Africa. 
Methods
For examination of the state of corruption crime, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to asses the current state of the Russian legislation regulating criminal law in general, as well as to predict its further development within the framework of modern state of crime. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of bodies that monitor the corruption crime rate and to identify the legal mechanisms of combat corruption on crimes. The comparative methods helps to make a qualitative comparison of domestic and foreign criminal legislation. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of officials of persons who may be involved in corruption crimes, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of criminal law. 
Results anticipated
Preliminary analysis of work on corruption crimes and practical data on this crime Show that there will be several results. Analysis of the works of domestic and foreign legal scholars shows this need for legislative improvement of this composition of crimes. Despite the fact that researchers offer different ways to solve this problem, this shows that there are gaps in the criminal legislation of Russia. Many believe that this is not only a legislative problem, but also features of the Russian mentality. Unfortunately, it has historically developed that in Russia it is common to receive and give bribes. Clear results based on domestic doctrine and analysis of judicial practice show numerous problems and overruns that complicate the existence of society as a whole. Preliminary analysis of the data makes it possible to determine the results from the point of view of legal practice. The results support the idea that the improvement of criminal legislation will be the only reason for the eradication of corruption crimes. I hope that my research will serve as a solution to some problems that exist at the moment and in the future will improve the corruption situation in Russia.
Conclusion
The initial results of this study allow me to conclude that bribery is primarily a crime, not an offence, as stated in the Administrative Code. This means that there is a need to delete article 19.28 of the Administrative Code and to establish the notion that corruption is a serious crime against the State. This does not follow from previous studies in view of the fact that the authors did not pay due attention to this aspect. From what was discussed, it is necessary to pay serious attention to the study of the concept of corruption crime, and so to reconsider the penalties of the son-in-law. The potential of this study lies primarily in enriching the methodology that can be achieved through the creation of a new conceptual apparatus in which corruption is regarded only as a serious crime. Conclusions are necessary for the theology of law and legal practice. The results can be used for educational purposes, namely for law school students. They can have largely practical implications for law students practicing in criminal law, legal experts, and law enforcement officials. I believe that the methods used in the study could be fruitful in the long term, as they open up a range of new opportunities for improving criminal law legislation. Moreover, they serve to develop a common approach to corruption crimes. In summary, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the field of corruption crimes and to further study criminal legislation as a whole.












