Introduction
Background. The problem of software licensing in Russia and abroad is regarded one of the most controversial issues in intellectual property law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: on the one hand, free and quick access to information is one of the most important conditions for the development of society in the modern world. On the other hand, the distribution of works on the Internet very often violates the intellectual rights of their creators. Both of these approaches have a conflict of interest in the field of intellectual property protection in common, but their main difference is the issue of protecting a copyright holder’s or the consumer’s interest.
The issue under discussion was addressed in articles by Russian scholars Savelyev A.I., Dmitrieva A.V. and Kuznetsova N.G. who focused on problematic issues of digital content distribution. Nevertheless, despite the significant amount of studies on the research problem, previous researchers seem to lack a comprehensive approach to the problem.
Another aspect of issue, which makes the concept of software as an object of civil rights stand out among other legal matters, is that there is an ambiguous approach to understanding software. Computer programs are designed for the functioning of computer technology, which allows to implement a variety of tasks. These programs make up the content of the concept of software, without which the functioning of the corresponding technical devices is impossible.
Problem Statement. This research aims to study software distribution issues in the legislation of the Russian Federation and foreign countries. In conformity with the purpose of the study the research project objectives are: 
1. to define the concept of software;
2. to identify the main features of software as an object of civil rights;
3. to reveal the principles of legal regulation of the contract of software as a service;
4. to determine the legal regulation of software licensing in the USA;
5. to determine the legal regulation of software licensing in the European Union;
6. to analyze the jurisprudence in the field of electronic commerce;
7. to reveal problems;
8. to give legal recommendations on reforming the legislation of the Russian Federation in the field of software distribution.
Delimitations of the Study. The research project is primarily focused on the analysis of judicial practice in the field of electronic commerce, which will determine the general principles of software distribution and licensing. This is determined by the fact that in different countries there are different approaches to the distribution of digital content. In particular, such approaches are different not only in the United States and the European Union, but also within Europe itself. Moreover, the delimitation of the study is the absence of a unified approach to the distribution of digital content to make a comprehensive comparative analysis.
Professional Significance. The research will be of primary importance to students of law faculties, lawyers and scholars, who deal with the creation of civil or intellectual legal norms. Russian literature and judicial practice do not contain a deep analysis of these issues. In this regard, the description of foreign experience is of particular value, since the analysis of the provisions of information law related to the assessment of the legal validity of licensing began in Europe and the United States much earlier. In addition, it would be useful to provide some recommendations for resolving potential problems. The proposed approaches allow several countries to improve their legislation.
Definitions of Key Terms. A “computer program” is a set of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer in order to bring about a certain result. 
According to the license agreement, one party is the holder of the exclusive right to the result of intellectual activity or to the means of individualization (licensor) grants or undertakes to provide the other party (licensee) the right to use such a result or such means to the extent provided for by the agreement. 
Literature review
A significant number of Russian and foreign researchers have devoted their works to the issues raised in the research. Currently, more and more researchers in the field of jurisprudence are addressing issues of electronic commerce, distribution of digital content, licensing digital content, in particular software. The general framework of the research is the recognition of the license agreement as the main model for the distribution of digital content on the Internet, however, more and more opinions are expressed about the need to consolidate a special form of distribution of digital content in the contract of software as a service.
N.G. Kuznetsova, exploring this topic, uses general scientific methods. She assumes that mobile application is software designed for a special operating system, intended for use on mobile devices, in particular smartphones, tablets. Thus, the mobile application is the result of intellectual activity, and according to Art. 1225 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, it should be referred to as computer programs.
Galushkina’s research critically reviewed possible ways to protect copyright in the global Internet at the international level. The researcher also makes a proposal to create a single international act governing legal relations in the field of copyright protection on the Internet. The article provides a number of examples showing how difficult it is to track the distribution and illegal use of various copyright objects. The creation of computer programs aimed at illegal copying and distribution of information is criticized by the researcher. The article suggests options for improving the legislation of all states, namely, the adoption of a single regulatory act regulating the protection of copyright on the Internet. The researcher argues that this act will become the foundation for the suppression of information crimes, as well as provide an effective system for proving their rights to works.
Lebed’s study is devoted to the problems of the development framework of existing copyright legislation and doctrine in France in the context of legal regulation of copyright relations in Europe. The originality of the objective form of expression of a work is one of the main conditions for recognizing a work as an object of protection. Another criterion for the protection of a work in France, as in most EU member states, is the objective form of expression of the work. In evidence of their position Lebed V.V. agrees with other researchers, such as Abdullin A.I., Savelyeva V.I. and others. The researcher concludes that in French law more attention is paid to moral law, in contrast to the states of the Anglo-American legal family, which have chosen a commercial approach to the work as an object of copyright. The article outlines the main documents, the adoption of which was determined by the appropriate stage in the development of French law, and also gives their legal characteristics.
Another Russian scholar Laptev in the article "The concept of artificial intelligence and legal responsibility for its work" makes an attempt to give a generalized definition of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence is fully or partially autonomous self-organizing computer-hardware-software virtual or cyberphysical, including bio-cybernetic, system endowed / possessing the ability and ability to think, self-organize, learn, make decisions independently, etc. V.A. Laptev assumes that in the near future AI-robots will be considered solely as an object of law in accordance with the provisions of Art. 128 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation on civil rights. The existing legal framework suggests that the person who owns artificial intelligence, in particular, to ensure its production and economic activities, is responsible for the work of artificial intelligence both in material embodiment (in the form of a robot) and in digital form (in the form of a cyber-physical computer program).
The principle of exhaustion of law is one of the central topics of the study. This problem was investigated in the work of Ivanova M.M. "Exhaustion of rights when licensing online content". Exhaustion of the law implies that after the sale or other transfer of ownership of the objective form of a work carried out with the consent of the author or other copyright holder, he loses the right to control the further distribution of the corresponding copy of the work. The researcher of the article concludes that with a strict interpretation of the legislative provisions and the nature of exhaustion of law, it should not apply to electronic content, access to which is provided on the basis of licenses. Foreign practice on this issue is different for software and other copyright objects. For software distributed online, exhaustion rules are applied by the courts.
The fundamental research by Savelyev A.I. concentrates on consideration of the features of software licensing in the Russian Federation, covers the features of software as an object of civil rights, analysis of Russian and foreign practices related to software licensing. The monograph examines in detail examples of Russian, European and American judicial practice; an attempt is made to compare the American and Russian regulation of license agreements, as well as to identify their coincidences and differences. Many of the issues covered in this research are the first to be examined in detail in Russian legal literature. In particular, these are issues related to the protection limits of the user interface as one of the most important components of a computer program, the correlation of the principle of freedom of contract and peremptory norms of intellectual property law (on exhaustion of rights and free use of a work), software product quality guarantees, unilateral modification and termination of a license agreement, and features of the content of software development agreements.
Serov A. in his article "SaaS: software or service?" emphasizes that SaaS is an information system in accordance with Art. 2 of Law N 149-FZ and indicates that information services also subject to the rules governing the provision of services, which means that SaaS should be qualified as a contract for the provision of services. In evidence of his position Serov A. turns to judicial practice, which supports the position of the researcher.
Savelyev A.I. emphasizes that Serov A. does not consider that having come to the correct conclusion on the inaccessibility of the SaaS listed in Art. 1270 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation SaaS relations drawn up by means of the license agreement are null and void due to the absence of an object in such an agreement, which is its essential condition.
Toft’s study deals with the problems of the doctrine of the first sale in the United States; and the resolution of the issue of the applicability of the exhaustion law to digital content. The researcher adheres to the following point of view: at present, the doctrine of the first sale is enshrined in Art. 109 U.S. Copyright Act 1976. It provides that the owner of a copy of a work or phonogram legally created in accordance with the requirements of copyright law is entitled to sell or otherwise alienate such a copy without the consent of the copyright holder. Courts give a negative answer to the question of the possibility of spreading the doctrine of the exhaustion of rights to digital content. Of recent decisions, it is worth mentioning the decision of the District Court of New York, in which the court indicated that the doctrine of exhaustion of rights (first sale) by definition affects only the right to distribution. It does not apply to the exercise of the right of reproduction, which takes place when creating a new copy of a work. If a copy of the work is made illegally, then the said doctrine is generally not applicable to such a copy. A court at Capital Records also ruled that the owner of a copyrighted work may sell, donate, or otherwise dispose of a hard drive, iPod, or other storage device onto which the digital file was originally uploaded. However, forcing the user to dispose of his digital content in this way, he forces the user to dispose of at least part of his electronic device, which in all likelihood includes digital copies of several copyrighted works. In other words, in order to be protected by the doctrine of the first sale, the owner of the copyrighted work must dispose of significantly more than was originally intended.
Rowland and Campbell’s study are indicated that the problem of qualification of a contract for the provision of software. In this article certain contractual and copyright issues relating to the supply of software have been identified. Firstly, software supplied via a shrink-wrap license does create potential contractual difficulties in the jurisdiction of England and Wales as a result of the possibility of the contractual license not having been incorporated into the supply contract or any collateral contract which might be found to exist. As has been seen there is not as yet any English authority on this position but case law from Scotland and the US has assumed policy reasons for finding in favor of the incorporation of these terms into the supply contract. The enforceability of the terms of the contractual license may be vital to the extent to which there may or may not be uncertainty over any implied copyright license.
Secondly, the incorporation of contractual terms into click-wrap licenses seems much more certain because of the method of completing the contract. It is very unlikely with such transactions that the terms and conditions of the contractual license will not be incorporated. Accordingly, any copyright issues are likely to be dealt with by the terms of this license.
Hancheng’s study contains the following findings: low cost delivery and applying SaaS application greatly reduce the enterprise informatization cost, so SaaS model could be a simple way to the current deep end of enterprise informatization. Along with market gradually mature, more and more SaaS software vendors, including traditional management software vendors, Internet companies and telecom operators, enter the market to provide SaaS service to customers with cheap price and change their business models bias of the thought from the product-center to the user-center commercial model, and seize potential tremendous long tail in software market, to find new profit growth point in the software industry.
It should be emphasized that a theoretical basis is sufficient for a research project. However, foreign researchers pay much more attention to the problems of software licensing and the ways of its distribution. At the same time, in recent years, the interest of Russian researchers in the problems under study has increased, which is primarily due to the entry into force of certain laws on digital aspects in the Russian Federation.
Methods
In this part of the project proposal the methods, which will be used in conducting the research, are explained. The research methodology was based on the following methods: statistical method, formal legal, method of interpretation of legal norms, comparative legal method. The statistical method is used to identify the amount of digital content licensed through the Internet, showing that this amount is constantly growing. The formal legal method was used to determine the concept of software, as well as to identify its characteristic features. The method of interpretation of legal norms is used to interpret the norms of civil and administrative legislation, as well as other legal sources aimed at regulating relations in the field of electronic commerce, both in Russian and in foreign law. The comparative legal synchronous and diachronic methods are used to compare the existing and expired legal acts of foreign and Russian legislation regarding regulation of legal relations in the field of intellectual law and electronic commerce.
Results anticipated
It can be deduced from the preliminary analysis of the works by Russian and foreign scholars that there are different approaches to the discussed issue. A number of researchers criticize the lack of systemic legal regulation regarding software licensing both in Russia and abroad. Based on the works of scientists, it can be predicted that the SaaS business model is one of the most effective software distribution models. It is assumed that soon, in connection with the development of the digital age, legislation in the field of software distribution will be regulated in more detail.
A preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice. It shows that the most similar software licensing systems for Russia were identified in the European Union. USA litigation is significantly different from the practice of Russian and European courts. I hope that the amendments that will be proposed in the study will solve some problems that arise in the field of legal regulation of software licensing.
Conclusion
The accomplished work for the project proposal shows that a lot of debatable questions are still unsettled. Despite the existence of formal grounds for qualifying a relationship to provide remote access to a computer program via the Internet as a license agreement, such a qualification is impractical from a practical point of view due to the inapplicability of most of the provisions making up the legal regime of such an agreement. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of methods of licensing software through various models for their distribution because it affects the qualification of legal relations and the importance of legal consequences.
The qualification of such relations as a contract for the provision of services for a fee or an unnamed contract in the absence of a counter provision provided for in Art. 423 of the Civil Code of Russia, is the most appropriate. It seems that in the era of the Internet, intellectual property law should still regulate issues related to the provision of access to works in digital form, regardless of the form of their delivery to the consumer. However, this requires a review of copyright principles and a reorientation of its focus on regulating the legal regime for the use of copies of a work to regulate access rights to such works.
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of legally securing various business models for software licensing. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to determine the role of software in the modern world by providing various tools for analysis and collecting information.
To sum up, proposed study attempts to develop the area of intellectual property law and information law to further explore software licensing. This study will serve as a modern, detailed analysis of the software distribution system for those who are interested in this topic.
