Introduction
The problem of the use of parole is regarded one of the most controversial issues in Russian penal law. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: reduction in the number of applications for parole related to the conflict-of-laws nature of the institution and strict conditions for parole. Both of these approaches have exist in practice, complicating the application of parole in common, but their main difference is that for the former it is necessary to reform the penal enforcement legislation, and for the latter - to create positive practice on this issue, giving hope to the convicted person for faster release from places of deprivation of liberty.
Background. Another aspect of conditional early release from punishment which makes the concept of the problem of this institution stand out among other legal matters, is that the objectivity of the decision of the court, which is responsible for the possibility of granting parole. This is a fact of paramount relevance, since modern legal studies have special appreciation for idea of legislative reform of the Penal Enforcement Code. The problem of parole has been widely investigated over the last few decades; however, previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of could reform the institution described into the context of today 's environment.  
Problem Statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: there is a consistent view in modern doctrine that there is a widespread tendency to reduce the use of parole, as well as a decrease in the number of positive decisions on the institution. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is to find out the reason for the difficulty of using this institution, as well as its relationship with the complexity of practical application. In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following:
Analyze the concept of parole in Russian legislation.
Consider the impact on the condition - early release of modern state realities.
Identify ways of possible modernization of penal enforcement in the field of parole. 
Review conflicts of criminal enforcement legislation. 
Delimitations of the Study. The study focuses on the nature of parole and its elements that allow the institution to be improved in the future. This identifies some difficulties in interpreting different approaches to the concept of parole and in distinguishing the application of other branches of law, such as criminal law. Moreover, one of the delimitations of the study related to the previous one is the significant difference between foreign and Russian legal systems. Finally, the latest delimitation is the provision by public authorities of outdated statistics on parole cases, which makes it difficult to draw a full conclusion about his situation on the day. 
Professional Significance. Within the framework of the project, the first tasks to be solved are to analyze the concept of parole in Russian and foreign legal systems in order to distinguish between commonalities and differences in approach to different legal systems. This will allow analysis of the key factors of parole and develop criteria for its improvement in the future. In order to achieve this goal, it is essential to determine the reasons for the high percentage of denial of parole applications by courts. In addition, it would be particularly useful to review the articles of the Penal Code and the Penal Enforcement Code on the institution in question in order to formulate possible solutions to the negative jurisprudence. The problem could be of primary interest to various scholars, law students and lawyers, who investigated the application statistics of the parole institute, since links would be established between the existing legal knowledge of the institute and its actual application. As the issue under study is of paramount legal and social importance, research findings are an urgent priority for all those involved in criminal and criminal enforcement parva studies, as well as law enforcement, including lawyers, police officers, detectives and investigators. 
Literature Review
The current state of the Institute of Parole in Russia is inextricably linked and depends on the definition of the legal nature and formulation of the concept of this institution. For a qualitative analysis of the Institute of Parole, we plan to analyze Russian criminal and penal enforcement legislation. These regulations do not contain the concept of parole. Criminal Code of the Russian Federation contains only the general characteristic of this institution: “A person who has served correction works, restriction in military service, restricted liberty, service in a disciplinary military unit, or deprivation of liberty may be released conditionally and ahead of time if the court finds out that for his rehabilitation he does not need to serve the full punishment imposed by the court. In this case the person may be fully or partially released from the remaning term of punishment“. However, the notion of the institution of parole can be found in doctrine. A.A. Sychev says that in essence, parole is a criminal legal mechanism, Applied in the execution of a sentence as a means of correcting and encouraging the lawful conduct of the convicted person, Consisting in the cessation of the isolation of the convicted person from law-abiding citizens and his return to society for the remainder of the term of the effectively outstanding punishment under the condition of the need to maintain a good lifestyle and the strict observance of a number of legal requirements, And threatening him with return to the correctional institution if they were violated. In case of parole from punishment, a probationary transition is carried out from a punitive means of achieving the goals of punishment to the only permissible correctional means. 
The legal nature of parole was also speculated by M.V. Kovalev. The author points out that every fact of early release serves as a legislative guarantee for other convicted State decisions in fairness, a motive for establishing a course of positive behaviour. Early release also guarantees the implementation of penal policy, which must follow the principles of humane and fair punishment, not to mention that the Institute of Parole is in a position to reduce the material costs of holding convicted persons. 
A.M. Fumm reviews the history of English penal enforcement legislation. England 's prison system was called "progressive" because its main feature was to encourage prisoners for good work and good behaviour. Before that, the main form of punishment in England was the reference. Most of the convicts were sent to Australia or America. The English government decided to move to a progressive system of punishment due to the increasing number of convicts and colonial countries could no longer accept them in such numbers. 
N.E. Safronov points out that judicial consideration of cases under parole should be within the framework of legality, justice and humanity. The absence of a subjective factor is a sign of the professionalism of judges, whose opinion will be difficult to influence the persons concerned. 
I.A. Efremova says that the courts should take into account the circumstances of the case on a case-by-case basis, that is, the gravity and nature of the crime. Among other things, the offences observed by the convicted person during his or her stay in places of deprivation of liberty should be considered. In addition, I.A. Efremova believes that only a person who has lost public danger or whose degree of public danger has significantly decreased is subject to early release. The degree of public danger exists in several different variants: typical, below typical, as low as possible and above typical. Based on this gradation, a person is subject to early release if his or her level of public danger is reduced from standard to lower than standard. This fact will be considered proof that there is only a low risk that a person is capable of committing a crime in the future (Ефремова, 2018). 
S.L. Babayan concludes that early release refers to the final stage of the progressive system of execution and serving of the sentence. The Institute of Parole is also of a dual legal nature and consists in the release of a convicted person from actual serving of his sentence if he meets the necessary conditions, which are enshrined at the legislative level. In addition, the Parole Institute is an incentive institute. 
Arnold’s study deals with the problem of integrating the institution of conditional release into all the wanderings of Europe. Recognizing that conditional release is one of the most effective and constructive means of preventing re-offending and promoting resettlement, providing the prisoner with planned, assisted and supervised reintegration into the community”, recommends that governments and member states “introduce conditional release in their legislation if it does not already provide for this measure”. 
Nagy’s study concerns the institution of conditional release in Hungary. One of the most effective tools of changing the attitudes of the convicts is the institution of conditional release. The essence of parole is that after serving a determined part of the punishment, it renders the opportunity to the convict to become reintegrated into the society. Early release in Hungary is based on discretionary decisions and it is always conditioned. The basic provision governing the early release of prisoners is Article 38 of the Penal Code. According to this provision, prisoners can be conditionally released from determinate prison sentences after they have served two-thirds of their sentence. Since the amendments of 1998 a minimum period of three months must be served by the prisoner before being released conditionally. The conditional release aims to ensure the opportunity of an effective resocialization for the well-behaving prisoners. In this case, the aim of the penalty can be achieved without serving the complete term of imprisonment. The decision about the release of a certain prison inmate on parole belongs under the competence of the penal executive judge. There are objective criterion and subjective criterion on parole. 
Freuen's research is a comparison of parole institutions in the United Kingdom and the United States. This is of significant legal importance, as these countries relate to the Anglo-Saxon legal system. The procedure for regulating this institution in practice is of interest. In the UK, prisoners are able to apply for parole if they have a fixed-term sentence. The government will apply for prisoners if they are given a life sentence. The Parole Board will then decide whether an inmate is entitled to a hearing. If a prisoner gets parole they will be kept under supervision, known as being “on licence” or probation. Each case will be reviewed again within two years if parole is not granted. Should a prisoner not comply with conditions on the parole certificate, a warrant is issued for their arrest. In the United States, courts may specify in a sentence how much time must be served before a prisoner is eligible for parole. In most states, the decision of whether an inmate is paroled is vested in a paroling authority, such as a parole board. Before being granted the privilege of parole, the inmate meets with members of the parole board and is interviewed. A number of states have abolished discretionary parole, including Florida, New York, Mississippi and California. Many states now permit sentences of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole.
Аuthor of the paper analyzes the parole system in 50 states of America. Statistics are provided on the number of applications of the institution, its quality and legal implications. The author suggests that, throughout the development of American legal science, 16 states decided to abolish the use of parole instincts on their territory. 
In addition, аuthor calls on the courts to consider parole cases on objective criteria, excluding any subjective side. The decision to release someone should be based on a number of factors - participation in educational and professional programs, disciplinary history in prison and other verifiable metrics indicating personal transformation. Too often, denials for subjective reasons such as "the gravity of the crime" or "reducing the seriousness of the crime" only lessen the motivation needed for change. This practice also takes place in the Russian reality, because, despite the legislation, the courts primarily rely on their own vision of the situation. Thus, both Russia and the United States consider parole cases with great subjectivity.
Steiner's research is about the traditional nature of parole. State law may provide that certain types of sentences deprive prisoners of the right to parole or are entitled to it only after a very long prison sentence. Indeed, life without parole, often referred to as "LWOP," is a common alternative to the death penalty. Parole is for a prisoner to return to society. Parole restrictions are supposed to encourage good behaviour after imprisonment. In fact, even before prisoners get out of custody, the possibility of parole gives them an incentive to avoid trouble. Parole also reduces prison overcrowding by providing offenders who are considered unlikely to harm others with the benefit of a controlled life in society. Parole helps the government reduce the cost of holding large numbers of prisoners while keeping the general population safe.
Methods
In this part of the project proposal the methods, which will be used in conducting the research, are explained. The research methodology was based on the following methods: statistical method, formal legal, method of interpretation of legal norms, comparative legal method. This part of the project proposal explains the methods that will be used in the research. The following methods were the cornerstone of research methodology: statistical method, formal legal, method of interpretation of precepts of law, comparative legal method. The statistical method is used to determine the relevance of the institution of parole, as well as to determine the frequency of its use in practice. The formal legal method was used to define the notion of the institution of parole, and to determine its legal nature. The method of interpretation of legal norms is used to interpret norms of criminal and penal enforcement legislation, as well as other legal sources aimed at regulating relations in early release from punishment, both in Russian and foreign law. Comparative legal synchronous and diachronical methods are used to compare existing and overdue legal acts of foreign and Russian legislation concerning the regulation of legal relations in the field of criminal enforcement legislation.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works of domestic and foreign authors makes it possible to conclude that there are separate approaches to the study of the institution of parole. The question of the legal nature and concept of this institution is hardly controversial in the scientific community, which means that both domestic and foreign legal scholars consider this institution as one of the types of exemption from punishment. It is assumed that the excessive conflict of criminal enforcement legislation will lead to its State reform. A preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of legal practice. It follows that the Russian institution of conditional release is more progressive than, for example, in France. The State 's corner code does not contain a rule for determining the mandatory minimum period, depending on the gravity of the crime committed. Thus, a person convicted of a crime of minor gravity who has caused minor harm by his or her wrongful act, the penalty for which is imprisonment, must serve the same part of the sentence as a person convicted of a more serious crime.
It is rare that the legal analysis of the institution of conditional release makes a significant contribution to its study. I hope that my research will help overcome some of the stagnation that has formed in this institution.























Conclusion
The initial results of this study allow me to conclude that the institution of parole is not functioning sufficiently effectively today. It assumes that this institution has not been sufficiently regulated.
Therefore, this study can be seen as a complement to the findings that have been described in this draft. The potential of this study lies primarily in enriching the methodology that can be achieved through detailed practical analysis of parole.
In summary, the proposed studies are aimed at the development of criminal legislation with a view to further examining the effectiveness of the application of parole. This study will serve as a modern, detailed analysis of the institution for those interested in the topic.
