INTRODUCTION
Background of the study. Today the institution of insolvency (bankruptcy) in the Russian Federation is rapidly developing. For instance, the legislator relatively recently introduced the possibility of bankruptcy of individuals, and also made attempts to secure creditors by changing the order of inclusion of requirements in the register. Meanwhile, such and some other changes, as well as all kinds of weak points of their new provisions in the legislation, are becoming a target for unscrupulous participants in civil turnover who are attempting illegal actions in the field of bankruptcy, including a process of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy. Therefore, it seems extremely important to study theoretical approaches to the definition of such acts and find signs by which they can be characterized as deliberate and illegal bankruptcies. From a practical point of view, it seems important to study this problem, since in general the share of property losses of all participants in civil turnover from various crimes in the field of economic activity in Russia is really huge. Fictitious and deliberate bankruptcies of legal entities occupy first places in this area among material damage. Moreover, experts annually note the rapid growth of bankruptcy procedures, many of which are fictitious and deliberate, nevertheless reaching the stage of bankruptcy proceedings, which indicates an unhealthy and extremely dangerous trend, given difficult economic situation in the country. Despite the large number of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcies in Russia, the prosecution of those responsible for this, in particular the criminal liability, is difficult due to the very small number of law enforcement practices in these cases, as well as the lack of a unified and clear interpretation of the rules governing liability for fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy. Based on the foregoing, the study of the problem of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy of legal entities in Russia is an significant and relevant topic as never before.
The problem statement. The purpose of the study is to explore the legal regulation of bankruptcies containing signs of offenses and crimes (illegal bankruptcies). The purpose of this study will be achieved by solving the following objectives:
• To explore the concept and signs of deliberate bankruptcy;
• To define the concept and signs of fictitious bankruptcy;
• To study the legal framework and methods for identifying signs of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy;
• To identify problems of criminal prosecution in cases involving deliberate and fictitious bankruptcies;
• To analyze the administrative liability of individuals for illegal bankruptcies;
• To consider subsidiary liability of individuals for illegal bankruptcies.
Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be limited, primarily, by the object of the study, which involves certain kind of legal relations, particularly, legal regulation of bankruptcies containing signs of offenses and crimes and the problem of legal regulation of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy of legal entities and bankruptcy of citizens.
The further limitations will be provided by the subject of the research, which involves theoretical and legal approaches, as well as legal acts aimed at identifying and combating fictitious and deliberate bankruptcies of legal entities and citizens based on the current legislative framework and legal doctrine of the Russian Federation.
Professional Significance. The degree of illumination of the topic under consideration is quite large, there are many different articles and scientific papers devoted to the problem of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy. However, the issues of determining the problem of bringing perpetrators of criminal bankruptcies to criminal responsibility have not been studied much. Moreover, the findings of legal regulation of the citizen’s bankruptcies not completely determined and the provided statistics are also poorly studied.
LITERATURE REVIEW
The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of literature on legal regulation on bankruptcy and insolvency in Russia.
At first, study will be devoted to the historical aspects of the institute of bankruptcy in Russia through the article of Ruslan Tkhagapso and Mikhail Kuter. This article analyzes the political and economic crisis of the end of the 1980th and the change of eras which followed in the 1990th showed extremely sharp crisis phenomena in the Russian economy. Change of public formations was shown in total reorganization of the social and economic relations in society. Many organizations were unable to pay bills of suppliers, to pay wages in time as well as make payments on taxes, etc. The financial position of most of accounting entities and citizens sharply worsened because of the acute shortage of financial resources caused by a hyperinflation.
In the article by Hubert Ooghe Sofie De Prijcker, there is a description of the causes of bankruptcy, their nature and the typology of processes, which may lead to bankruptcy. According to this article, which includes certain typology, the following features can be distinguished. The first failure process describes the deterioration of unfortunate start-up companies leaded by a control with a serious deficiency in managerial and industry- related knowledge. The second process reveals the fall down after a failing development of hopeful early- stage companies. Those companies have, after a failed investment, unsatisfactory pecuniary means to resolve their way of doing business to the changes in the environment in order to avoid bankruptcy. Third, failure process of dazzled established companies, leaded by an overconfident control without a practical outlook on the company’s pecuniary position. Lastly, the bankruptcy of apathetic companies, describes the moderate deterioration of an apathetic established company where control had lost touch with the changing environment. This typology gives new perception into the development of pecuniary dispatch ratios during the years preceding bankruptcy. 
Another article written by Zotikova, O., Popova, S., Livadina, S., there is a presentation of a systematic form data on the effect of fraud in bankruptcy to change the balance sheet items and income statement of the organization. The article indicates the important role of accounting statements, which allow to timely evaluate the property and financial position of the legal entity, to organize a successful forecast of its operation. Authors introduce a list of suspicious transactions that have a negative impact on the financial and economic state of bankruptcy, which is based on analysis of existing experiences of diagnosis of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy. Another methods for determining illegal bankruptcies are presented in the article, written by Kotov V.V.. This article explores the provisions of administrative law (Code of Administrative Offences of the Russian Federation), in particular Art. 14.12.
The article, written by Zarubynskyi, V.M., Demianov, N.I., Kushlyk, E.Y., Semerenko, I.V. proves that various models constructed on the basis of the same statistical method of discriminant analysis, but using various statistical data, applied to the same enterprise for the same time period, demonstrate different results. The proposed model for estimation of the financial and economic condition of an enterprise is based on the alternative principles and methods of calculations.
The study of Mamiy, E., Pyshnogray, A., Chulkov, A., Korzun, A. focuses on an assessment of the bankruptcy’s probability. In recent years in Russia, the problem of bankruptcy has increased and acquired high growth rate. An insolvency of companies is systemic and becomes the new part of country’s economic reality. Therefore, this article contains the background of setting up the universal mechanism to estimate company’s risk of bankruptcy. As a result, there is formed the background to create a universal system for assessing the probability of bankruptcy. Moreover, there is increased the role of operational data in the analysis that is specific to each organization. It shows the case for forming clear algorithm for assessing the probability of bankruptcy on the basis of constant monitoring of the financial condition, combined with the calculation system assessment in relation to payment breaks and the complex evaluation of the coefficient system.
In addition to the above in the article of Iksanov, R. A., Bagaev, V. A., Shirgazin, D. N.. The article comprehensively addresses the issue of illegal bankruptcies using the articles of the Criminal (The Criminal code of the Russian Federation) and Civil codes (The Civil Code of the Russian Federation), in particular, art. 195-197 which provides for criminal prosecution. 
METHODS
For examination of the problem of legal regulation of bankruptcies containing signs of offenses and crimes (illegal bankruptcies), various scientific methods will be used.
The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation system which regulates a large institute of bankruptcy (insolvency) proceedings as well as to predict its further development within the framework of civil, administrative and criminal legislation in the Russian Federation. 
The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of arbitrage courts and arbitration managers in the field of the finding certain signs of offenses and crimes in bankruptcy (insolvency) proceedings. Moreover, this method will be used to identify the legal mechanisms of civil and criminal prosecution.
The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitative comparison of the Anglo-Saxon legal system and the Romano-German legal system and their norms in the sphere of regulation of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcy in order to recognize similarities and differences.
Finally, the formal method legal method will help to analyze specific regulations governing the rights and obligations of debtors and creditors, to interpret them and to clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of bankruptcy (insolvency) proceedings in Russia.
RESULTS ANTICIPATED
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of illegal bankruptcies (fictitious or deliberate bankruptcies) and the data on arbitrage practice in the Russian Federation about bankruptcies containing signs of offenses and crimes over the last 10 years shows that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by the researchers reveals that there is delineation of the terms and interpretations of the legal definition of fictitious or deliberate bankruptcy in the Russian Federation. It means that researchers have different standpoints on the subject under question. They regard it as administrative disputes but I infer that the problem of fictitious or deliberate bankruptcy should be considered as s criminal case. This gives the perspective of recognition it as an economic crime. Achieved outcomes, grounded on the arbitrage practice, display numerous problems and oversights that complicate the definition of the fictitious or deliberate bankruptcy in Russia.
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of the legal practice. The data is presented by numerous arbitrage cases over the last decade. It shows that there is a problem of finding the right and objective methods to oversee the signs of offenses and crimes in bankruptcy proceedings and the evidence in the cases which involves signs of fictitious or deliberate bankruptcy in the Russian Federation. 
CONCLUSION
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that there are problems in legal regulation of bankruptcies containing features of offences and crimes. It means that today illegal bankruptcies deteriorate the rate of the fair legal entities in the Russian Federation and overall level of criminal prosecution is decreased. This does not follow from previous researches on this theme due to the lack of statistics and the comprehensive analytics. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of legal activity of arbitration managers in this sphere.
This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to the articles, which analyzed the problems of criminal prosecution of the CEO and another significant person which involves in activity of legal entity. 
The results of the study can be used in the professional activity of managers and specialists, as well as a mechanism for improving diagnostic signs of fictitious and deliberate bankruptcies, in particular, for experts and arbitration managers.
