At present, there is a tendency to increase the crimes envisaged by Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code. The purpose of the study to examine the specifics of preliminary investigation in criminal cases on the fact of nonpayment of salary and other payments. In the work such scientific methods of research as formal-legal, static, method of theoretical and practical analysis are used. As a result of the writing of the work, the features of the preliminary investigation into criminal cases will be investigated on the fact of nonpayment of salary and other payments. The structure of the work is determined by the goals and objectives setand consists of an introduction, two chapters, divided into paragraphs, conclusions and a bibliographic list.
	

Introduction
Background. According to Art. 133 of Russian Labor Code the minimum wage is set simultaneously on the entire territory of the Russian Federation and can not be lower than the subsistence minimum of the able-bodied person.
The principle of equal pay is also enshrined in the regulations of other countries so in the USA the principle of equal pay for equal work is fixed, with equal work being done by workers having comparable jobs and working conditions. At the same time any sums that were to be paid to the employee and retained by the employer are considered unpaid minimum wages or unpaid compensation for overtime work (Equal pay act of 1963).
In addition it should be noted that in many countries the obligation of employers to insure workers is stipulated which provides for payment of compensation in the event of damage to the health of the employee in the workplace (Employers' Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969. A brief guide for employers). In case of violation of these norms by the employer as well as in case of nonpayment of wages, the employees are not criminally liable, and the employer is involved in civil or administrative responsibility (Employment Rights Act, 1996), (Employers’ Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969).
According to Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code provides for the responsibility of the head of the organization for partial or complete nonpayment of salary and other payments established by law made from commercialor other personal interest. In this case the nonpayment period is taken into account: partial nonpayment is more than three months, full nonpayment is more than two months.
In accordance with Art. 151 of Russian Code of Criminal Procedure preliminary investigation of the crimes provided for in Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code is made by investigators of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation.
In November 2016 year the Investigative Directorate of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation for the Perm region hosted a meeting of the college devoted to the status of work on the consideration of communications on the fact of nonpayment of wages and the effectiveness of interagency cooperation.             «At the meeting it was noted that as of 01.11.2016 the debt to employees (1,228 people) in the territory of the Perm Krai was 20266000 rubles» (В краевом следственном управлении СК России состоялось расширенное заседание коллегии по вопросам невыплаты заработной платы).
Professional Significance. The investigation of crimes under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code is faced with various problems of criminal procedure and criminal law.
The practical significance of the work is due to the peculiarities of the investigation actions in criminal cases concerning crimes provided for in Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code proof of the guilt of the head of the organization, analysis of legislation and law enforcement practice, in case of identification of deficiencies, development of recommendations.
Delimitations of the Study. It is proposed to consider issues related to the nature of the crime in connection with the fact of nonpayment of salary and other payments established by law ways of committing and circumstances subject to proof as well as the grounds for initiating a criminal case and the procedure for the production of certain investigative actions in criminal cases of crimes stipulated by Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code and issues related to interagency cooperation in the investigation of criminal cases of crimes under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code.
Problem Statement. The purpose of the study is to study the specifics of preliminary investigation in criminal cases on the fact of nonpayment of salary and other payments established by law.
To achieve this goal, the following tasks were set:
1. To determine the methods of committing crimes and the circumstances that are to be proved in criminal cases under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code;
2. To determine the grounds for initiating a criminal case and to examine the specifics of the production of certain investigative actions on the fact of                          nonpayment of salary and other payments established by law;
3. Consider the features of inter-agency cooperation in the investigation of criminal cases of crimes under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code.
Literature Review
	The review of the literature is aimed at studying the normative legal acts and scientific works on the issues of pretrial investigation of criminal cases about nonpayment of the salary, pensions, grants and other payments. The issue of                 nonpayment of wages is regulated by many state and international regulatory enactments in which the notion of "wages" is fixed, since payments included in this concept, the term of debt is determined by the presence or absence of a crime. so in Art. 1 of the Convention № 95 of the International Labor Organization (ILO):  Concerning the protection of wages term wages means remuneration or earnings, however designated or calculated, capable of being expressed in terms of money and fixed by mutual agreement or by national laws or regulations, which are payable in virtue of a written or unwritten contract of employment by an employer to an employed person for work done or to be done or for services rendered or to be rendered (Protection of Wages Convention, 1949).
In scientific works the question of payment of the salary and approach of employer's liability in case of his insolvency of the employer that is in case of bankruptcy of the organization is considered. The matter is also settled by the legislator, for example in compliance with the Convention of Protection of Workers Claims (Employer's Insolvency):  in the event of an employer's insolvency, workers' claims arising out of their employment shall be protected by a privilege so that they are paid out of the assets of the insolvent employer before non-privileged creditors can be paid their share (Protection of Workers' Claims (Employer's Insolvency) Convention, 1992).
Besides in many international normative and legal acts the fundamental principles and rights at work are fixed. In 1998 ILO adopted a declaration on "Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work", according to which such principles as freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour;  the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, 1998 ).
It should also be noted that in many national acts the minimum wage is fixed, nonpayment of which entails the responsibility of the employer. As it was mentioned earlier, not all countries provide for criminal liability for this offense, but along with the legislation of the Russian Federation, criminal liability is provided for in the United Kingdom according to National Minimum Wage Act in the event that the employer refuses the employee to pay the minimum wage or deliberately pays wages less than the established minimum, this person is liable to criminal liability (National minimum wage act, 2000).
According to Russian Code of Criminal Procedure criminal legal proceedings include pre-judicial production and judicial proceedings, similar parts contain also in the legislation of the countries of Anglo-Saxon system of the right (Temchenko E., 2016). This work is devoted to pretrial investigation of criminal cases about nonpayment of the salary, pensions, grants and other payments.
The issue of preliminary investigation in criminal cases on the fact of                nonpayment of salary, pensions, scholarships, allowances and other payments is one of the urgent issues for today, which is caused by an increase in the number of offenses related to nonpayment of wages and other payments.
A large number of articles are written, which reveal the features of the preliminary investigation of crimes under Art. 145.1 of the Russian Criminal Code, for example, the issues of preliminary investigation in these criminal cases are examined in the works of Kostylev, S.P., Kolosova, V.I., Batyagina, E.Yu., Ivanova, O.A., Kovrizhkin, D.V., Kim, E.P., Kiselev, E.P., Prudnikova, T.A., and others, the issues of forensic accounting expertise are devoted to the work of Pashchenko, T.V., Teshukova, T.G. and so on.
At the same time in many works theoretical and practical questions of preliminary investigation in criminal cases on crimes under art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code are analyzed. 
So for example Prudnikova, T.A. identifies the following mistakes of the norms of criminal procedure law:  specialists are not involved in the seizure of documents and carriers of accounting information; internal documentation of the organization is not withdrawn; does not establish commercial or other personal interest of the employer; the measures are not taken in a timely manner to find the property of the debtors and to impose an arrest on it for subsequent enforcement of the sentence in the part of civil action (ПрудниковаТ.А., 2017).
As has been mentioned above, a large number of scientific works are devoted to the appointment and conduct of forensic accounting expertise in the course of investigation of criminal cases about nonpayment of the salary and other payments. So Khmeleva, A.V. refers to the tasks of the expert in the production of forensic accounting expertise:  the definition of the financial condition and organizational and technical level of the organization; establishment of the procedure for the formation of a wage fund and other payments, their accrual and payment in the organization; the definition of the structure of the debt created as a result of nonpayment of salary, its size and timing of formation; determination of the time, amount and terms of repayment of arrears resulting from nonpayment of salary in the organization; assessment of the structure and dynamics of the organization's accounts payable and receivable (Хмелева А.В., 2017).
Also, one of the main sources is methodical recommendations «Peculiarities of carrying out preliminary inspection and investigation of crimes about the nonpayment of salary (Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code)» developed by the Academy of the Investigative Committee of the Russian Federation, which reflects the circumstances that are subject to investigation and establishment during the investigation of crimes under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code, the procedure for conducting inspections under the procedure of Art. 144-145 of Russian Code of Criminal Procedure, shortcomings and omissions, the procedure for initiating a criminal case, the documents to be examined, the specifics of the production of individual investigative actions, and the use of special knowledge. In addition, this methodical recommendations contains an analysis of the judicial practice under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code (Методические рекомендации «Особенности проведения предварительной проверки и расследования преступлений о невыплате заработной платы (ст. 145.1 УК РФ)», 2016).
Methods
In the work such scientific methods of research as formal-legal, static, method of theoretical and practical analysis are used.
The formal legal method consists in addressing various legal acts. This method allows you to identify legal concepts, identify their characteristics, conduct a classification, interpret the content of legal regulations.
The statistical method is to study the dynamics of increasing or reducing the number of crimes committed; spheres of public relations in which these crimes are committed, the amount of nonpayment of salary, the number of victims and persons brought to criminal responsibility and so on.
The method of theoretical and practical analysis consists in studying legislation and judicial practice in criminal cases on the fact of nonpayment of salary and other payments.

Results Anticipated
As a result of the writing of the work, the features of the preliminary investigation into criminal cases will be investigated on the fact of nonpayment of salary and other payments. Namely the main ways of committing these crimes have been determined; the circumstances to be proved are studied; the grounds for instituting criminal proceedings on the fact of nonpayment of wages, pensions, grants, allowances and other benefits have been established, and the specifics of the production of certain investigative actions in criminal cases on crimes provided for in art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code. Also peculiarities and order will be explored to examine the peculiarities of interdepartmental interaction in the investigation of criminal cases on the fact of committing crimes under Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code.
Conclusion
According to Art. 145.1 of Russian Criminal Code provides for the responsibility of the head of the organization for partial or complete nonpayment of salary and other payments established by law made from commercial or other personal interest. In this case the nonpayment period is taken into account: partial nonpayment is more than three months, full nonpayment is more than two months.
Thus the method of committing a crime is the full or partial nonpayment of the salary, pensions, scholarship, allowances and other payments established by law, made out of self-interested or other personal interest by the head of the organization.
In the course of the investigation of this type of crime, it is necessary to establish the following circumstances: the legal status and financial and economic situation of the employer, the procedure for paying salary; the actual activity of the employer in the payment of salary; the fact of violation of the order of payment of salary; circle of people affected by nonpayment of salary; the subject of the crime; legal status of the head of the organization; the motive for perdition; consequences of nonpayment of salary; time and place of commission of a crime. 
The grounds for initiating a criminal case are the fact of nonpayment of salary, other payments established by law to at least one employee of an economic entity registered in the established order.
In the course of a criminal investigation in accordance with Russian Criminal Procedure Code can be performed such investigative actions as inspection, search, seizure, interrogation, confrontation and other.
The system of main bodies and institutions that protect the rights of citizens in the sphere of labor legislation includes: Russian General Prosecutor's Office and its territorial bodies, Russian Investigative Committee and its territorial bodies, Russian Federal Service for Labor and Employment and its inspectorates in the subjects, Russian Pension Fund and its territorial subdivisions, Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the courts.
