Introduction
Background. The bankruptcy legislation is one of the most comprehensive and discussed field of Russian law. The whole structure of insolvency institution has some accurately defined purposes, such as lobbying creditors’ and debtor’s interests, promoting business restart and preserve whole economical system from collapsing. The legal field of bankruptcy is completed with many stages, both trial and pre-trial levels. Especially particular participants, as arbitration managing directors also complicate all composing proceedings of the institution.  
However, despite the fact of numerous changes in the main Russian insolvency law, as the Federal Law N-127, and permanent development of its ideas, the major part in bankrupt procedures are given for an arbitration managing director. Since its first scientific mentioning in the end of XIX century, the key role of managing director (administrative director before the insolvency legislation comeback in the end of XX century, that invented a definition of arbitration director) “has been affected on the whole system of bankrupt processes, created tendencies in judicial opinions, changed the law”.
Thus, the insolvency system is a complicated legal field with its own participants with special statuses and authorities. In order to examine all the features and options of the topic, and to bring some new ideas into judicial frameworks, authors consider a wide variety of bankruptcy elements.             
Professional Significance. In actual research we attempt to review not only the native bankruptcy legislation and scientific outlook, but also analyse foreign experience in arbitration management legal frameworks, to define existing shortcomings in urgent legal status in a most accurate way.   
Problem Statement. The general goal of the paper is to define the legal status of the arbitration managing director, operating nature of the self-regulated organizations and determine key-problems of modern bankruptcy procedures and its relation to participants. 
In order to complete the main purpose, a group of intermediate tasks should be fulfilled: 
1. Analyze the historical developing process of arbitration management;
2. Determine urgent legal status of management elements, such as directors, special  self-regulated organizations, relations between creditors and directors;
3. Compare Russian legislation with foreign schemes;
4. Describe and suggest some probable judicial ways to develop native bankrupt law base it order to reach higher efficiency of its functioning.
Delimitations of the Study. As the work has some strictly defined goals, there are a number of limitations that current paper faces. 
Despite the fact that the arbitration management is a very complexed institution, touching different scientific branches, we are going to explore it only in its juridical aspects. Another limit is expressed in a multitude of approaches to the management legal nature. It means that some theorists can find concerned ideas as debatable ones. Lastly, according to bankruptcy multistaging, it is absolutely impossible to determine all of its elements:  in a current research we take only the most essential parts of it to avoid informational overload and remain volume limits. 
Thus, research limitations are stipulated by the work character and stimulate accurate analysis of the strictly defined goals and purposes. 
Literature Review
This part of the paper is devoted to analysis of theoretical and practical researches in the sphere of arbitration management and bankruptcy proceedings. We review a number of studies to examine all current problems in the objective field to enlarge the knowledge basis and figure out all usable methods. The information database is completed by a massive of scientific publications of different judges, lawyers and jurists.
In order to estimate the legal nature and basis of arbitration management institution, we begin the research with the most fundamental theoretical source that defined general way of insolvency development. So, to start up, we cannot avoid one of the most significant study on bankruptcy topic – Bankruptcy Trial by Gabriel Shershenevich. The following doctrine was the first consolidated scientific study devoted to trade law issues and theoretical backgrounds.   
In the paper, Shershenevich displays historical foundations of bankruptcy institution and its control methods. Moreover, he detects insolvency definition, builds differentiation between two trial types (bankruptcy and trade), and depicts all possible legal consequences of insolvency for both debtor and creditor. 
For our research the most considerable part of the study is administration of traded cases. That current institution, as it comes from its nature, was the first official variant of modern arbitration management. According to the concerned investigation and by comparing it to the actual condition, we point out all basic options of arbitration management legal nature, describe the goals and tasks, draw a development parallel that has led to the urgent bankruptcy proceedings.  
But insolvency service changes in a very dynamic way. After Soviet Union collapsed, our society faced with absolutely different judicial and economical systems. In that turn, last decades gave us numerous papers, attempted to insolvency legislation, its practical experience and scientific views. In the paper we reveal both native and foreign resources to complete all set goals effectively. 
As it was emphasized, it is important to point out native scientist and lawyer Tai who allocated the majority of problems, existed after first FL N-127 implementation. The author represented critical analysis of 2002 bankruptcy law amendments, which brought the new institution of self-regulated organisation of arbitration management directors. 
In his study, Tai discloses legal differences between arbitration management in Russian and European jurisdiction, which, as far as we concerned, appears as the most vital part of the work, allowing discovering all legal issues, happening in insolvency and pre-insolvency procedures.  
As it possible to notice through the study text, Tai suggests avoiding imperative character of director membership, and decrease self-regulated organisation authorities in the procedure of arbitration director appointment. 
Another block of data is based on foreign researches, mostly American, to define all advantages and disadvantages, typical for both native and abroad systems, which as in its turn, aimed to conjecture universal effective arbitration management. 
The major work that represents insolvency issues, its principles and basic ideas in USA was created by Epstein, Nickles and White. This book importance cannot be put under the doubts. Text is related to all basic problems in whole bankruptcy institution in USA, including trial proceedings, case review, sequences of estate property sale and other parts of such comprehensive legal institution. The importance of this scientific paper is also stipulated by including analysis of Bankruptcy Code, which is an American legislative document, regulating all insolvency relations and participants. The following approaches are used in our research as the basic ones that provide strong support for comparing two legal branches of arbitration management investigation. 
As it represented, the questions of insolvency in USA were also discussed in study by Danilov. In published research, author brings up features of bankruptcy process, taking place in USA. He describes types of causes that led to business failure and suggests legal scheme to solvency restoration. He mentions that a bankruptcy procedures and arbitration management is not only a judicial occurrence, but it also correlates with business management, trade activity, economic predictions and accountant analysis. On that hand, despite the fact that the research is not fulfilled enough in a judicial plain, it has some essential points to include in our research. As it was mentioned, business repairing ways allow us to make some certain conclusions about probable arbitration managing directors’ behavior, aimed to make an entity functioning again. It is needed to be pointed that such cases is supported by Epstein through some parts of Bankruptcy hornbook.  
To sum everything up, we can conclude that the literature analysis to understand the numerous approaches to understand the problematic issues of the general purpose, to choose the best proving method that is used in a research and achieve the higher result, expressed in a broad problem determination. Moreover, the wide spread of sources types, including scientific papers, law documents, court positions, lawyers opinions create a full-angle view on the topic and broadens the research frameworks.    
Methods
Current part of the research attempts to methods, which have been used during the exploratory routine. In a presented paper we use some major scientific methods, such as analysis, synthesis, and comparative method of investigation to point out and provide a deep understanding of the problems core.
While examining the historical formation of the arbitrational management institution, we use historical analysis. It is an obligatory part of the research, because it helps to define all cause-and-effect relations, which brought the modern legal system to its present condition. 
Another vital moment to be emphasized is displayed in comparative method. Moreover we can honestly conclude that this current methodology type is the most significant one in a whole research. It is stipulated by the results nature: all schemes that are depicted in the work are made during the comparative analysis of different legal schools. In order to determine all probable shortcomings and omissions in Russian bankruptcy law, we are realizing parallel scanning of American legislation documents. This operation gives us an opportunity to understand differences between two similar legal positions and figure out, which judicial features promoted effectiveness in bankruptcy procedures. 
As for the database, we use both native and foreign laws, regulating insolvency. The analysis provides information on elements, received from legal statutes over more than a decade period.   
Results Anticipated
We can declare that the obtained results represent prevailing scientific approaches to arbitration manager’s legal status, their responsibility and the bankruptcy procedures. 
Through the research text we have tried to represent all major occurred stages of insolvency law mass evolution. We also consider significant peculiarities of bankruptcy participants in order to estimate their actual status.  
Achieved outcomes, grounded on completed legislation comparison display numerous existent problems and oversights that complicate all bankruptcy development. In its turn, backward insolvency creates improper environment for all-sphere entity functionality.      
Last but not least result is expressed in proposed ways of legislative evolution. It displays possible ways of its improvement and suggests real options to solve urgent legal nature problems. 
All of it is supposed that concluded steps can play a fundamental role for next researches, focused on bankruptcy in general and arbitration management in particular. Using groundworks, submitted in current paper, legal analyst can save time resources to reach another analogous goals in next scientific explorations. 
     
     
Conclusion
The results we have achieved in the research are focused on the topic of legal issues of arbitration management and adjacent institutions. The set of concluded statements pays attention to the most essential questions and problems of the researched objective. It is supposed, that proposed methods of improving the legislation will probably have an influence on following scientific studies and play a significant role in Russian arbitration management extension. 



