Introduction
Background. The idea of regional integration in Latin America has been developing for decades. However, the work of international organizations to create integration institutions in this region is not productive - there is a lack of dialogue between the authorities of states due to political differences. In the area of inter-state cooperation, Latin American countries are at the stage of development, which is similar to the stage of formation of the integration space in Eurasia. The States of both regions face similar problems in the course of cooperation on the basis of international organizations, so the integration process has similar tendencies.
Comparative characteristics of integration structures in the Latin American region – the comparing of advantages and disadvantages and the study of the practice of designing integration institutions will promote to the formulation of principles that will contribute to the modernization of existing international organizations in the Eurasian region. Subsequently, on the basis of these principles, a new interstate bloc with the participation of the Russian Federation may appear.
Problem Statement. The main purpose of the work is to carry out a comparative legal analysis of the implementation of the concept of regional integration and its legal registration in Latin America and the Eurasian region.
In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to set the following objectives:
1) to investigate theoretical approaches to the phenomenon of regional integration;
2) study the historical aspect of integration processes;  
3) to characterize the activities of regional international organizations in Latin America, Eurasia; 
4) highlight the problems in the implementation of integration tasks in the first and second regions; 
5) to carry out a comparative legal analysis of integration institutions in Latin America and Eurasia.
Delimitations of the Study. The scope of this paper is to analyze the processes of integration through interaction of Latin American countries in international organizations such as CELAC (Community of Latin American and Caribbean States), ALBA (Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America), MERCOSUR (Southern Common Market). The same principle is applied to the states of the Eurasian region - their work in the СНГ (Содружество независимых государств), ШОС (Шанхайская организация сотрудничества), EAЭС (Евразийский экономический союз) will be considered.
Professional Significance. International organizations in the Eurasian region are ineffective, it will be proved in the text of the diploma. Nevertheless, we should not deny the fact that regional integration will allow Russia to get a more balanced and strong economy. In our study, we will formulate the main problems that need to be addressed to increase the level of efficiency of integration processes in Eurasia.
Definitions of Key Term. Regional integration is the process of uniting sovereign states in order to establish an expanded economic space, where goods, services, finances, investments, labor freely circulate. 
Literature review
The basis for this study is the legal literature and normative legal acts of international organizations. Our study will include several parts - the theoretical and historical basis of the integration, the analysis of normative acts issued by international organizations of Latin America and the Eurasian region. We have researched foreign literature to write parts about integration theory and features of Latin American integration.
In our view, it is necessary to mention the names of scholars who have made a significant contribution to science in the study of integration processes in Latin America – A. Malamud, John. L. Gardini, H. M. Insulza. 
A. Malamud reveals modern problems of integration, designs a comparative analysis of integration in different parts of the world. In this study, Malamud compares Latin American organizations with the European Union and comes to the conclusion that European integration is deeper, because the governments of the EU states are committed to cooperation. Malamud believes that effective integration institutions can exist only through the cooperation of Latin American governments. “Although direct executive intervention could prove counterproductive at any point in the future, nothing else seems to have worked better so far to foster Latin American integration”.
The work of A. Nurulin will help us in writing part of the study related to the theoretical understanding of the phenomenon of integration. In the article the author presents the opinions of the most authoritative scientists who write about integration. The purpose of the work is to tell about the development of approaches to integration among domestic specialists in public international law.
An essential part of our research is the analysis of the theoretical foundations of integration. In particular, we analyze the works of A.В. Bolaños and C.S. Pecequilo.
Balaños is convinced that integration is always based on potential economic profits, and states should be aware of them when regional blocs are created. Unfortunately, Balaños has not elaborated a vital point about the impact of economic integration on the development of policy and society.
Pecequillo describes the nature of the reasons for states to integrate – “States chose integration only when they evaluate that they cannot gain   similar benefits through interdependence”. 
Russian scholars are also working on the theory of integration. The work of A. Нурулин will help us in writing part of the study related to the theoretical understanding of the phenomenon of integration. In the article the author presents the opinions of the most authoritative scholars who write about integration. The purpose of the work is to tell about the development of approaches to integration among domestic specialists in international law.
Нурулин concludes that it is necessary to separate the scientific branch from the science of public international law – international integration law. The author believes that this step is important because it will allow understanding the new concepts of integration and structurally outlining their provisions.
The main actors of the integration process are international organizations. In our study, we will analyze the charters of the three organizations in Latin America: CELAC, ALBA, MERCOSUR. However, in this review we will only discuss the provisions relating to the two main organizations - CELAC and MERCOSUR.
According to the Сaracas Declaration, the major objectives of CELAC are:
- development of mutually beneficial economic institutions that do not infringe upon the sovereign rights of each member of the Association; 
- development of programmes to support CELAC countries in times of economic crisis; 
- fight against illegal ways to generate income; 
- implementation of coordinated policies against climate change.
In our view, these goals confirm the view that CELAC is the most promising entity for expanding integration in the region. The authors recognize that the agenda of the SELAC summits is the most acute, problematic and relevant for the majority of the participating countries. In particular, Denis Kennedy and Brian Beaton write that “CELAC builds on a rich but fragmented history of Latin American cooperation. Its potential lies in its inclusiveness and its capacity—as seen in its declarations— to consolidate and frame a common regional identity”.
Another international organization whose concept has been explored in our study is MERCOSUR. 
MERCOSUR operates on the principles of an open regionalism model, which is based on two conditions: reduction of trade barriers in relations with third countries; and an “open door” policy - expansion of relations with other integration blocs.
Article 4 of the Treaty of Asuncion establishes that MERCOSUR members should provide fair terms of trade for third countries, applying for these purposes the national legislation which prohibits unfair competition in trade. At the same time, states-parties coordinate common rules of trade policy.
There are different points of view on the prospects of integration within MERCOSUR. Gabriela Lomeu Campos estimates the unit in the following ways – “Mercosur's achievements and failures over the past 25 years have been incredibly diverse, ranging from a successful regional bloc to a failing project”. The author argues that, despite the long history of the organization, MERCOSUR institutions are still in the process of being formed. According to Campos, the reasons for MERCOSUR's slow development were the region's economic backwardness and lack of leadership. Brazil, the largest country in the region, is unable to be a leader because of its domestic political problems and undifferentiated economy.
This approach is supported by other authors. Carlos Ricardo Caichiolo claims that MERCOSUR did not developed agreed rules for trade that could replace national economic regimes. According to the author, MERCOSUR's weakness is that all integration processes are controlled by Latin American presidents, not by economic entities and civil society. 
Russian researchers are also engaged in a study of Latin American integration. Д. Кошкуль  argues that MERCOSUR has radically changed the basic idea of the activity – in the 1990s the participating countries tried to operate on the principle of “liberal intraregional trade”; today the main idea is to reform, which will increase the level of competitiveness and compatibility of the economies of MERCOSUR members.
Кузнецова in the article addresses to generalization of results of integration processes in Latin America and the Caribbean at the moment.
It should be noted that the author proposes his own classification of intergovernmental agreements, it is divided into sectoral agreements; preferential agreements; free trade agreements; customs unions; common markets.
According to the Russian scholar, Latin America is gradually becoming an investment attractive region. However, Latin American countries suffer from dependence on imports of high-tech goods, which are necessary for the modernization of the economy; low level of transport and telecommunications infrastructures that hinder intra-regional exchange.
This literary review does not allow to study the whole scope of opinions on problematic issues of regional integration. In the final version of the diploma, we will present more discussion points about the subject of the study. It should be noted that the main type of literature for writing a diploma will be normative acts of international organizations.
Methods
This part of the proposal research explains the methods used in carrying out the study. Despite the fact that the field study will focus attention on the legal concept of regional integration and the method of legal interpretation, I aim to examine in some detail the method of systematization. This method will be used in the processing of sources for diploma and comparison of integration institutions in Eurasia and Latin America.
In addition, there are various approaches to analyzing regional integration. Scholars use the historical method, predictive method and others. In my opinion, it is necessary to unite methods from different disciplines. I am convinced that this strategy helps to combine functional and formal explanation of regional integration. The methodology will take a definitive shape as the study is processing.
Results anticipated

The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. The main purpose of the study will be a comparative analysis of three international organizations from Latin America and three from Eurasia.
Furthermore, it should be noted that the findings of this study challenge current thinking about regional integration as an exclusively economic phenomenon. In my opinion, integration affects the political, cultural and social processes. To test this hypothesis it is possible to focus on real cases of integration of states in international organizations (in Eurasia and Latin America). Examples of the activities of several international organizations will provide deeper understanding of the nature of the research subject. My arguments will be based on the data obtained in the legislation and in practice. 
Conclusion
Regional integration is currently an active area of research. Regional integration is an effective mechanism for the development of various institutions (legal, economic, political, social and cultural) within the state. To conclude we can state that the project was an attempt to present analyzing the theory and problems of integration and several integration blocks - CELAC and MERCOSUR. The study helped to systematize sources relating to Latin American integration. In addition, we have added several new tasks to achieve the goals of the diploma.


