Introduction
Background. At present, the process of globalization is underway and it certainly affects the nature of international relations, the state as a separate link and how it is undergoing these changes. Diplomatic missions and consular offices are the main agencies of foreign relations of the state, which are a trustee in the territory of the host country. The main task of individual diplomatic services is to safeguard the interests of their respective countries abroad. 
That is why it is important to pay attention both to the agencies of foreign relations themselves and to people carrying diplomatic and consular services.
However, the changes that occur both in foreign policy and in internal policy can affect the status of the above-mentioned agencies of the Russian Federation. The recent situation in the United States of America can serve as a vivid example. Russian flags were ripped off from the closed consular offices in San Francisco. The scale of the activities of diplomatic missions and consular offices is undoubtedly growing and this necessitates a careful analysis of the legal situation in the present conditions.
It should be mentioned that diplomatic missions and consular offices, being an agencies of foreign relations of the state, are governed by international instruments. Such acts establish universally recognized principles of the activity of diplomatic missions. One of the important principle is that the establishment of diplomatic relations between States, and of permanent diplomatic missions, takes place by mutual consent. A similar approach can be seen in the Art. 2 of Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963, where is it said the establishment of consular relations between States takes place by mutual consent.
Modern international law extends to areas of interstate relations, regulates the most pressing political issues, for example, the maintenance of international peace and security. Diplomatic missions and consular offices, in turn, are the basis for international cooperation. They significantly influence the development of relations in all spheres of life of the international community.
Problem Statement. The purpose of the study is to determine the legal status of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Russian Federation.
To achieve this goal, the following tasks are set:
To define the system of agencies of foreign relations of Russia and to determine the place, role and importance of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Russian Federation in this system;
To identify the types of diplomatic missions and analyze the privileges and immunities of their employees;
To identify the problems of the legal status and activities of diplomatic missions and consular offices  and to suggest solutions of these problems.
Delimitations of the Study. It is proposed to consider issues of public relations related to the activities of permanent diplomatic missions, consular offices of the Russian Federation, as well as relations, regulated by international legal acts on consular and diplomatic relations.
Despite the fact that the process of diplomatic missions and consular offices it is primarily a practical activity and touching different branches, we are going to explore it only in its juridical aspects.
Another limit is expressed in the international character of the chosen topic and, in connection with this, the existence of a multitude of different opinions.
Professional Significance. The novelty of the study is that this is the attempt to give a complex research of features of legal regulation of diplomatic and consular agencies of the Russian Federation. It is also systematic analysis of mission activities not only in terms of their structure and functioning, but also in terms of international political relations. 
Literature Review 
A considerable amount of valuable work on legal status of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Russian Federation has been done to determine the functions and powers of these state bodies. The most important domestic works have been made by Blishchenko I.P., Durdenevsky V.N., Levin D.B., Demin Y.G.
The work of Blishchenko I. and Durdenevsky V. "Diplomatic and consular law" is the first in Soviet literature research that generalizes the theory and practice of the socialist states in the field of diplomatic and consular law. It is necessary to recognize as a great advantage of the book the systematization of the agencies of foreign relations. This attempt was undertaken for the first time and seems quite justified and timely. A significant place in the work is given to the legal status and functions of consular offices. The lack of this work is the absence of a special chapter on the history of the emergence and development of diplomatic and consular law.
A more narrow research in this area is a monograph of Demin Y. “Status of diplomatic missions and their personnel”. This paper shows current trends in the legal regulation of the status of diplomatic representations and their personnel, which will help improve Russian legislation in this area. It contains both theoretical bases and problems of practical application.
Specificity of Pavlov E. approach is in his distinction of the following concepts: "сconstitutional legal mechanism for the implementation of external relations of the state", "external relations of the state", "foreign policy of the state" and "international relations of the state". Pavlov found that “the term "foreign policy" is used in a broad sense, which includes not only the interaction of the state with other states”, but he does not talk about the consequences of approach.
Dubinin Y. analyzes one of the most important functions of diplomatic missions abroad in “Information and analytical function of diplomatic missions abroad”. Such a function of diplomatic missions is defined by the Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961, as well as the Regulations on the Embassy of the Russian Federation of 1996. A careful analysis of the basic requirements for foreign policy information was conducted, namely, such information should be relevant, reliable, complete, new. The author also touches such an important function as the forecast of the development of events. In his opinion, in the scale of the requirements for information and analytical activities of an overseas institution - the foresight of events takes the highest place, and success in this area are sometimes part of the diplomatic record. This can not be disagreed because interstate relations may depend on correct forecasting and further tactics.
During the study process, many international acts have been analyzed, including conventions, the UN Charter, the RF agreements. The analyses of regulatory legal acts of the Russian Federation is also important on this topic. 
The basic international acts in this sphere are Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. These conventions arose in connection with the need for codification and further development of legal norms on issues of consular and diplomatic relations between states. Article 1 is of key importance, since it discloses the content of the terms given in the convention, such as "consular post", "consular district", "consular officer", "consular premises", "consular archives ", etc. Established by these conventions, universal rules in the field of consular and diplomatic relations touched upon various issues related to the implementation of consular and diplomatic relations between states.
According to Denza, the professor of Oxford University, Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations “is a cornerstone of the international legal order, codifying the rules for exchange of embassies among sovereign states which are the oldest established and the most fundamental rules of international law”. This commentary is important not only to practitioners in diplomatic missions and departments of foreign affairs, but also to United Nations practitioners. The author of this commentary lucidly analyses the contentious issue of requests to x-ray diplomatic bags, the state practice relating to which informs the UN’s position that such bags should not be x-rayed. There is also a line between immunities and privileges under the 1961 Vienna Convention and the UN’s privileges and immunities under the 1946 Convention.
It is difficult to overestimate the extraordinary importance of Lau’s contribution in the sphere of international aspects of diplomatic and consular law. In the framework of the guide, special attention is paid to the practical application of the law in the United States and a number of other countries. In this aspect, management is practically applicable and useful for writing a research, as there is an opportunity to compare US and Russian law enforcement practices. The special value of this guide is that it contains law enforcement practice. The author of the guide gives electronic references to practice in different countries, without generalizing and making specific conclusions. For example, he says that public websites and yearbooks are among the best resources for researching practices. He also points to the Western perspective of most available resources, since the Vienna Conventions are largely codified by Western countries. In this respect is of value and another guide “Consular Notification and Access”. This manual is designed to help ensure that foreign governments can extend appropriate consular services to their nationals in the United States and that the United States complies with its legal obligations to such governments. It is useful for comparison the obligations of federal, state, and local government officials in USA and Russia.
According to Dela, “the legal status of honorary consuls is a bit different than that of career consular officers”. This study is about the different rights and obligations of consuls, which depend on their status.
Mokrova A. stated that “the norms of international law governing the status of diplomatic representations do not sufficiently take into account traditions, the state system and the legal system of the host state”, but she does not talk about how to solve this problem.
Torshina O. follows a similar point of view. She claims that Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963 must undergo certain changes in its norms, and Russian legislation must be brought into line with international obligations in the field of readmission. Modern science of consular law does not pay due attention to new institutions for domestic legal practice, so there are some gaps that need to be filled. A special place in the study is the consideration of additional state guarantees in the diplomatic service, which are created to compensate for the risks faced by employees of diplomatic services and their families. 
Methods
This part of the proposal explains methods used in carrying out the study. The methodological basis of the study is a systematic approach to the analysis of the legal framework that regulates diplomatic and consular relations in the international arena and in Russia. 
There are various approaches to analyze the legal status of diplomatic mission and consular offices, their functions as well as the problems associated with theirs activities. Logical, historical, analytical methods are the general methods that were used in research. In addition, scientific methods of complex systematic study of phenomena and processes were used. Among special and particular methods of scientific knowledge - the formal legal method used to develop classifications of certain phenomena and implement the necessary generalizations, as well as the comparative legal method used, in particular, to compare the norms and principles of national legal systems with international norms and principles. The use of these methods made it possible to study the problem in a comprehensive manner, in the interconnection and interdependence of the legal phenomena.
Certainty and validity of the results obtained during the study is achieved through the use of system-structural, comparative legal, formal-legal methods, as well as a method for describing concepts and terms, methods of analysis, interpretation and classification.
Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned.
The goal of the study is to determine the legal status of diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Russian Federation.
This research attempts to answer the following questions:
What influences on legal status of diplomatic missions and consular offices of Russia?
What problems do diplomatic missions and consular offices face during their activities?
The hypotheses are as follows:
Despite the fact that the legal status is fixed in international instruments, there are many reasons that can affect it, including the international political situation;
Being the agencies of foreign relations, diplomatic missions and consular offices face many problems, including the bureaucratic problem.
In the project, we expect to get the following results:
To demonstrate the problems in activities of  the aforementioned bodies of the state;
To develop ways to solve these problems.
Conclusion
The present research is devoted to the analyses of legal status of diplomatic missions and consular offices of Russia, the identification the problems in activities of this state bodies.
The study is based on the use of scientific general methods (Logical, historical, analytical methods) and particular methods of scientific knowledge (formal legal, comparative legal methods).
The research is a complex analyses of legal status of diplomatic missions and consular offices and it can be used as a theoretical base for lawyers or students to resolve disputes of different origin.

