Introduction
Background In the field of globalization and the intensification of integration processes in the modern world, there is an increase in migration flows. The regulator of such flows is the institution of migration as a structural element of international law. Despite the fact that the institution of migration has existed for a long time, many problematic issues of legal regulation of migration cannot be recognized as resolved. It is important to note, that the number of such issues is growing steadily - the reason for this is the newly military conflicts, climate changes, economic and other factors.
For instance, one of the factors that led to a sharp jump in migration flows was the military conflict in Syria, in connection with which the countries of the European Union in 2015 had to accept a large number of migrants (ООН: в Европу каждый день прибывает 8 000 беженцев URL: ). Prior to these events of 2015, the legislators of European countries considered that the system of legal regulation of migration processes in European countries was developed. However, the implementation of the migration legislation of these countries during the period of the migration crisis has revealed many serious legal problems that have jeopardized the security and implementation of the migration policy of European countries. The lack of effective legal regulation has led to a rights violation of the European Union citizens and the rights of migrants.
Recently, the Russian Federation has also been influenced by factors affecting a sharp increase in migration processes, and therefore has experienced difficulties in integrating migrants. Similarly with the European Union, a sharp jump in number of migrants in Russia indicated that the legal regulation of migration processes in the Russian Federation cannot be recognized perfect.
Nevertheless, migration issues are also relevant outside of migration crises: the number of people migrating to the Russian Federation and the countries of the European Union is constantly growing – this requires constant improvement of the legal framework, exchange of experience on migration issues with other states. The study of problematic issues of legal regulation of migration and the search for solutions to these problems can improve the effectiveness of the application of "migration standards". The universal relevance of migration issues does not lose its relevance for stabilizing the socio-economic sphere within and between states. It is important to note, that the institution of migration is rarely chosen for research, because it is a comprehensive institute and it requires the analysis of the legislation of several states at the same time.
Problem statement The purpose of this research concerned with the researching of legal regulation of migration processes, identifying gaps, conflicts and other problems in law. To achieve this aim, it is also necessary to highlight the following tasks:
1. Defining the concept, legal nature and types of migration as legal term;
2. Study the sources (forms) of the institution of migration as an element of international law;
3. Considering the international legal basis for regulating migrant status;
4. Analysis of migration legislation and enforcement in the field of migration of some countries of Europe and the Russian Federation;
5. Identification the interaction and mutual influence of some countries of Europe and the Russian Federation in the field of regulation of migration processes;
6. Disclosing identified issues and suggest possible solutions;
7. Identification possible trends in the legal regulation of migration issues.
Delimitations of the Study Within the research proposal, this research focuses on studying the norms of international, Russian law, as well as the law of some European countries, law enforcement practices, as well as published scientific articles researched sphere. The main difficulty lies in fact that some jurisdictions do not recognize the content of the migration law that is recognized in other states. In this regard, we need to find the most effective legal regulation in all different countries and to optimize legal mechanisms for all jurisdictions.
Professional Significance The project should establish differences in the migration laws of Germany, France, Netherlands and Russian Federation. To achieve this goal, it will be extremely advisable to classify the legal acts of the selected countries by legal force. In addition, it seems particularly useful to analyze the articles of the federal law "On the legal status of foreign citizens in the Russian Federation". The result of this study may be of primary interest to various scholars, law students and lawyers who are exploring the possibility of codification and unification of normative legal acts of different jurisdiction, since the possibility or impossibility of such codification in reality will be established.
Literature review
In connection with the migration crisis in Europe, many scientists and lawyers questioned the effectiveness of migration legislation and drew attention to significant legal gaps in the regulation of migration.
For example, by virtue of Article 13 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, a non-citizen can be expelled from the European State only by appropriate procedural decision. At the same time, this migrant cannot be longer than the period required to prepare for the move (expulsion). This rule applies only to persons legally located in the territory of the European State. However, practice shows that the deadline is not followed not only for migrants who were legally in the European Union, but also for migrants who illegally arrived in the European states. 
Thus, for example, the Netherlands experience revealed a new group of migrants – non-removable migrants: certain groups of migrants which are left indefinitely in a legal limbo until the decision to be removed is issued by the national authorities. Nevertheless, non-removable migrants have no legal reason to stay in the territory of a European state, but there are may be political, technical and economic reasons that do not allow expelling migrants from the state. Situation demonstrates the unsuitability of the traditional binary of legal and illegal status. B.M. Queiroz believes that it is up to Member States to decide whether to remedy a legal limbo that in some cases may have been created at the supranational level.
The Italian lawmaker has already paid attention to this problem: taking into account the complexity of the procedures and the number of persons recognized as illegal migrants, special repatriation centers (Centri di permanenza per i rimpatri) were created, and the period of detention of migrants in such centers is 180 days. However, some authors consider this solution to the problem incorrect: Roberta Brunetti believes that this period of detention of migrants in a limited territory violates personal freedom.
Unlike the above, other researchers draw attention to the excessive concern of German state authorities about the status of migrants. Solter N. notes that contrary to the principle enshrined in Art. 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which states that a unified asylum policy should be developed, Germany decides on asylum independently. So, in violation of Art. 13 of this Agreement, German authorities recognized the possibility of granting asylum to persons who received asylum and arrived from the territory of another European state – Greece. German government authorities explained their actions by the fact that the conditions provided by Greece for asylum do not adequately protect the rights of refugees, due to systemic violations. A similar position was expressed with regard to Hungary. These actions violated the constitutional norms of Germany, which did not allow the provision of asylum to persons arriving from safe countries.
Solter N. also believes that at present there is some reason to recognize European law losing their supranational status, and highlights the tendencies of European countries to increase the priority of national norms over European Union norms.
On the other side, Russian researchers do not note similar trends in relation to Russian law: Russian migration law does not currently have a single codified act - first of all, the general principles on which the codified normative act will be based on should be highlighted in Russian law.
Methods
The methodological basis of the study is the general scientific method of cognition, expressed in analysis, induction and a systematic approach.
The analysis is expressed by reviewing the regulatory framework, the practice of the courts of some countries of the European Union and the Russian Federation. It will allow us to identify common problems in migration issues, to identify the rules of law that are absent in one jurisdiction, but exist in another jurisdiction, to offer the most effective ways to solve migration problems. Using analysis, the induction method is implemented.
The induction method provides an opportunity to generalize the analyzed material, to determine trends in the law of the studied states. It is not possible to solve the problems without this integrated approach. It is impossible to disclose identified problems without combining the analyzed practice and legislation into a single whole.
The systemic method lays out the main problems and the trends that arise in connection with them, at the same time it is the basis for the comparative legal research method.
Also, in order to better understand the effect of legal norms regulating migration issues, in practice, the statistical method will be used, for instance: to indicate the number of persons recognized as migrants in the European Union and in Russia, as well as the number of persons applying for refugee status ".
In the study, the comparative legal method allows for specific legal problems to compare their regulatory sources, to compare the individual elements of the studied legal systems. This method will open the possibility for assessing the effectiveness of the applicable standards in regulating migration. Formation of conclusions about possible solutions to the identified problems of the migration legislation of the studied states will not do without the comparative legal method.
Also, a formal legal method will be used, for example, to classify the reasons for non-expulsion of migrants, to identify the rules of law to be changed.
Despite this, research methodology is not limited to only this list.
Results Anticipated
By the end of this study, it is supposed to define the concept of migration, its legal regulation in the Russian Federation and in some European countries. Problems, conflicts and gaps in regulating migration should be identified. It is necessary, taking into account the experience of other states, to develop possible solutions to the identified outstanding issues on the research topic. It is estimated that based on the identified problems and possible solutions, it will be possible to derive general trends in the legal regulation of migration by the countries studied. In aggregate, a picture should be built reflecting the institution of migration and its regulation on the example of Russia and some European countries.
It is assumed that the totality of such methods as analysis, induction, formal legal method, comparative legal method will allow to identify common problems in migration issues, to identify the rules of law that are absent in one jurisdiction, but exist in another jurisdiction, to offer the most effective ways to solve migration problems. 
Conclusion
To conclude, the institute of migration is an integral part of international law regulating legal relations related to migration. The legal nature of the institution of migration is associated with the rights of every person to freedom of movement, choice of place of residence and place of stay, and free exit from the country.
The sources of the Institute of Migration include international legal acts and national legislation in the field of regulation of migration processes.
It should be noted that the legislation of European countries, as well as the Russian Federation contains quite serious gaps affecting human rights and freedoms. To increase the effectiveness of legal regulation in the field of migration of the Russian Federation, one should turn to the experience of European countries both as a separate country and as part of the European Union.
