Introduction
Background. As we know, the Russian Federation declares in its Constitution a wide range of rights and freedoms. One of its sections is devoted to the economic basis of the functioning of the civil turnover. One of the most significant areas of the turnover is an investment activity of its members. It is worth noting that with the advent of market relations in Russia at the turn of 1980-1990 the investment activity, as one of the core in the contemporary market relations, became extremely substantial for the Russian state. It is explained since an investment act is a driving force for the economic growth of the state. However, after three decades, we can say that the urgency of improving the investment legislation is still high. This is since the economic conditions, that existed 30 years ago, replaced by new ones, furthermore, in the 2000s the world was shocked by the global crisis.
Moreover, the importance of investment relations for the Russian state proves by the organization and holding an array of investment forums and conferences, including the international level, to discuss the most important issues of investment activity. For example, the Russian Investment Forum, which shows the investment potential of Russia, St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, International Finance Congress and others. Also, Russia cannot do without, and these world-class events such as the World Economic Forum in Davos.
Problem statement. The aim of the diploma study is an analysis of the current legislation of the Russian Federation in the field of investment activity, followed by the identification of gaps and lacks with proposals of its eliminations. To attain the aim of this paper we shall mark objectives: 
1) the allocation of types of investment activities in Russia, 
2) the determination of the scope of subjects of investment activity in Russia, 
3) the proposition of improvements on the investment process mechanisms in Russia.
Professional Significance. It should be noted that the present study has considerable practical importance. First, the subject of this study is the current legislation of The Russian Federation. Second, the theoretical basis of the work includes theses and monographs of prominent legal scholars specializing in this specific sphere of Russian legislation. Third, in the process of writing the work materials of judicial practice will be used. As it is known, courts are direct legislation enforcers, they reveal a conflict in the law, as well as drawbacks. Fourth, the list of used literature sources filled by foreign sources, which reflect the experience of foreign legislation enforcers in the field of investment activity.
Delimitations of the study. In this paper we will look through the rules governing investments in the form of capital investments (equal to infrastructure), participation in the securities market, as well as a special type of investment - venture capital investment. With regard to the subjects involved in the investment process, the three groups will be highlighted: 1) non-institutional investors, 2) institutional investors, 3) supporting actors of the investment process.
Literature Review
The dissertation abstract of Ratnikova D.S. on the topic "Legal regulation of investment activity in the Russian Federation: the theoretical foundations". In this thesis the author holds one of the first theoretical analysis of investment activity in Russia. Ratnikova certainly finds a high level of actualization of the subject’s areas. Confirming this fact she gives the example of Russia's participation in numerous international events, dedicated to the development of economic and investment potential. First, the author gives the theoretical basis of nature to concepts “investment” and “investment activities”, while pointing out that the Russian legislation does not set the proper volume of regulation. Secondly, the author gives a classification of investments. Next Ratnikova identifies some characteristics of investment activity, to distinguish between the concept of "investment" and "investment activity". In a subsequent chapter of the thesis the author delineates the range of subjects of investment activity. She identifies three groups of subjects: 1) subjects with a general status, 2) subjects of special status (professional participants), 3) other entities (such as intermediaries in the securities market). In the final chapter of the paper Ratnikova says on contractual forms of cooperation in the sphere of investment activity. The author says that despite the wide range of types of investment contracts, it should be clearly understood that the investment agreement is considered as such if one of the parties is the subject of the investment process, as well as concluded during this process. In our opinion, this thesis will be the theoretical basis of our diploma research paper, since it gives understanding of the fundamentals of the study scope of legal regulation. Moreover, the author of the thesis introduces a unique system of some categories in the framework of investment relations, while offering to implement them into Russian legislation, in order to increase the efficiency and harmonization of legislation relating to investment activities.
The Monograph of Tselovalnikova I.Y. on the topic "Legal regulation of investment activity". It should to be said that structurally this monograph resembles the thesis, which was described above, however, it has its own advantages. Firstly, the author evaluates the meaning inserted to the category of "investment". When this analysis is carried out, it is both based on the etymology and semasiology of the word. Thus, the author penetrates into the depth of the essence of the word. Further, it is worth noting that, stating a list of subjects put under the study of investment activity, Tselovalnikova reveals the role of the state to participate in investment activities. The author emphasizes that the state can participate in investment relations both vertically and horizontally. In the first case, the State acts as the subject of creating a regulatory framework for investment activities, as well as carrying out monitoring and supervision of compliance with established standards. In the second case, the state is an equal counterpart in investment relations, under which other parties may enter into various agreements. Thus, we want to say, that it is the role of the state in investment activity can be extremely helpful when writing the diploma research paper. In general, the state plays a key role in shaping the investment activity. Firstly, it is the adoption of legal acts, secondly, it is the implementation of measures supporting participants of the investment process, through the conclusion of contracts for the construction of core infrastructure, granting rights to mineral extraction, etc. In other words, the state is advantageous to the investment carried out on its territory, because it increases the welfare of the entire population. Abstracting from the topic of the state in investment relations, we should pay attention to another advantage of the Tselovalnikova’s monograph – the presence of an extensive list of legal acts in the paragraph 2.5 of the monograph, which regulate the sphere of investment activity that facilitates the search for necessary legal acts for the analysis.
The article of Bonita Meyersfeld on the topic “What Are the Obligations of Those Who Invest in Corporations?”. In this article the author gives an insight into the fact that institutional investors, that is, professional participants of the investment process, carrying out investments in the corporation, including multinationals, can affect the compliance of human rights by these corporations. Moreover, the author raises the question of whether it is legal for institutional investors to derive a profit from the illegal activities of corporations (for instance, breach of environmental legislation). As we believe, particularly important for the writing of the diploma research paper will be an analysis of the proposed “socially responsible investment (SRI)” concept. In our opinion, the Russian legislation and investment relations theory do not include a similar concept. Therefore, Bonita Meyersfeld offers an innovative category for the research. Also, during the writing of the diploma research paper, it will be available to use the author’s understanding of the term institutional investor. As can be made out from the text, the most well-known form of investing is to invest pension funds into corporations, mainly multinational. Studying the experience of foreign countries, in the framework of the denoted article, we shall focus on the fact that considered mechanisms were developed in states where market relations were built for many decades, it has gone through the evolutionary phased development. Thus, not all of the concepts offered abroad, will be accepted in the contemporary Russian legal system.
The article of Heng An, Qun Wu, Zhonghua Wu on the topic “REIT Crash Risk and Institutional Investors”. It is necessary to state exactly that a topic, outlined in this article, is extremely significant, since investment risk is always high. Moreover, the authors focus on the definition of this risk through a different kind of classifications of institutional investors, resulting in a large number of calculations performed by drawing tables, graphs, bringing various information. However, this article will be useful in respect of the classification of institutional investors. Optionally, we do not exclude the possibility of using in our diploma research paper estimates made by authors on the risk assessment of certain institutional investors. As already noted, authors give two classifications of professional investors. The first is based on the legal type, and the second is made according to the investment behavior. Similar to the previous foreign source of our diploma research paper, we do not exclude the probability that the results, identified by this scientific article, can be put into practice within the framework of the Russian legal order. But we need to remember the fact that the development of the stock market in the Russian Federation, as a subtype of financial services market, is much lower than abroad. This is demonstrated through the market age in Russia and in the amount of turning capital on it. Therefore, to solution of these issues, in our opinion, it is necessary to resort to an application of mechanisms approved in the developed markets that have proven efficiency.
Methods
Under the methods of research, we understand the mechanisms by which objectives of diploma research paper can be solved, to attain the ultimate aim. In our diploma research paper methods of empirical and theoretical level will be used. Among them we include: comparison, analysis, synthesis, induction and deduction.
The method of comparison will be applied when using the scientific-theoretical, both Russian and foreign, experience in solving issues related to the activities in the framework of the investment process. The most effective in this case is the selection of regulatory mechanisms similar to Russian mechanisms, not to create the prerequisites for a fundamental change in the Russian system.
The method of analysis is to be used for the direct study of the legal and scientific bases of diploma research paper. Certainly, the legislation requires a detailed examination in order to identify gaps and collisions of norms.
The synthesis method may be used in the process of connection different parts of the legislation. As one of the results of the study, we do not exclude the possibility of offering a uniform draft of adopting a new legal act on the issues of regulation of investment relations.
Methods of induction and deduction will help when performing actions associated with the formation of the final provisions. Presented methods will contribute to the creation of logically true proposals to change current legislation in the field of investment activity.
Results Anticipated
Based on the stated objectives of the study, we wish to attain certain results, which will be different for their scientific novelty, practical applicability and overall significance for the whole of the investment activity in the Russian Federation.
First, according to the available information about the subject of the study, we guess to distinguish three types of investment: 1) infrastructure investments, 2) equity investments (securities market), 3) venture capital investment.
Second, we have assumed that the allocation of subjects should be done into three types: 1) non-institutional investors, 2) institutional investors, 3) supporting actors (such as brokers, depositories, etc.).
Third, we believe that it is worth considering the creation of a uniform set of rules governing investment activities, including the provisions on the types of subjects, investment mechanisms, the responsibility for violation of the rules in this area.
Thus, the general ultimate aim of all research will be achieved.
Conclusion
So, carrying out our diploma research paper, we can say with confidence that the high relevance of the denoted research are not subject to appeal. Therefore, we can assume that looking through a vast array of legislative, judicial and theoretical sources, we performed a set of the aim and objectives of the study stated at the beginning. I hope that we will achieve the anticipated results, which were described in the previous section of this project proposal. However, we are inclined to believe that this study is not enough to light up all the problems of the investment activity that could lead to a new scientific study.



