Introduction
Background. The problem of insolvency proceeding is considered one of the most vital issues in bankruptcy. The issue mentioned was addressed in numerous articles and dissertations by Russian and foreign scholars. There are two main approaches to the issue under question: the bankruptcy starts when a debtor cannot pay for three months and amount of a debt is 500 000 rubles or 300 000 rubles.
Another aspect of insolvency which makes the concept of contesting in valid transactions stand out among other legal matters, is that debtors enter into fictitious transactions to hide their assets. The problem of fictious transactions has been widely studied over the last few decades, however previous researches seem to lack a comprehensive approach that could put all the diverse accounts of abuses of bankrupt companies.
It is hypothesized that there are new variants of assets with drawl abuse mechanisms in insolvency proceeding.
Problem statement. The problem of the research can be formulated as follows: the transitional period of economic development, the protracted financial crisis, the decline in social security, the lack of favorable socio-economic and political conditions for the influx of Russian and foreign investments have created a favorable environment for the development of mass insolvency. The number of matters in arbitration courts is increasing annually, they are protracted. The practice of applying the Bankruptcy law reveals a number of negative circumstances which is the basis for scientific discussions, proposals for resolving contentious issues. The current legislation hopes rehabilitation procedure but the bankruptcy proceeding is the main when the negative consequences of declaring debtor bankrupt can be resolved. This all determines the purpose of the research. The purpose is a deep study of the bankruptcy proceedings including the formulation, justification, solution of controversial and debatable issues related to this procedure. 
In conformity with the purpose of the research the objectives are the following: consider the main provisions, the concept, the essence of bankruptcy proceedings, its position in modern doctrine and legislation; to study the legal status of participants in bankruptcy proceedings, to assess their performance; analyze the legal consequences of opening bankruptcy proceedings; analyze the order of satisfaction of the claims of creditors.
Delimitations of the study. The research focuses on the nature of insolvency procedure and the laws governing the legal regulation of relations that arise, develop and cease in the course of the bankruptcy proceedings of legal entities as well as problems with the application and interpretation of the relevant legal norms, legislative norms governing bankruptcy proceedings as well as judicial practice.
Professional Significance. In the framework of the project the first tasks to deal with is to analyze the concept of insolvency proceeding in Russian legal system. Besides, it seems to be particularly useful to analyze the problems of substantive and practical activities on the application and interpretation of relevant legal norms as well as judicial practice.
Definitions of key terms. Bankruptcy is the inability of the debtor recognized by the authority to satisfy in full the debts of creditors on monetary obligations and (or) to fulfill the obligation to pay mandatory state payments.
Insolvency proceeding - a procedure used in a bankruptcy case against a debtor recognized as bankrupt in order to proportionately comply with the requirements of creditors.
Literature review
In the modern period, majority of scientists use the special legal term “insolvency law” instead of or along with the phrase “insolvency (bankruptcy) institution”. Khazykova E.K., summarizes the views of scientists and says that the insolvency is understood as a meeting of creditors; order of satisfaction of requirements; totality of organs; procedure for distribution of property of the debtor; legal way to meet requirements; one-way transaction; legal form of tendering. According to opinion of Khazykova E.K., the most successful definition is given by Telyukina M.V., according to whom bankruptcy proceedings are “a system of measures carried out under the control of an arbitration court, the aim of which is ... proportionate satisfaction of creditors' requirements”.
Voronin A.V. notes, the insolvency proceedings are the final stage in the insolvency (bankruptcy) procedure. The result of the implementation of this procedure is the liquidation of a business entity as a legal entity. Voronin A.V. emphasizes that the main distinguishing feature of the insolvency proceedings, in contrast to restoration procedures, is the way to achieve the main goal of the bankruptcy proceedings. In the event of the implementation of bankruptcy proceedings, clashes between creditors' rights will be achieved by establishing a specific procedure for exercising rights. In conclusion, the author notes that despite the increase in the number of bankruptcies, the effectiveness of this procedure is consistently low. The share of satisfied claims for completed cases in 2017 amounted to only 5.5% [2]. In 2016, it was 6%, and in 2015 - 6.3%.
In this scientific article Glukhova O.Ju. and Shevyakov A.Ju. presented theoretical and practical aspects of bankruptcy proceedings in the procedure of insolvency of bankruptcy of legal entities and considered specifics of all procedures of insolvency (bankruptcy), especially feature of supervision, financial administration, outside management, insolvency proceedings, the amicable agreement. Authors defined the consequences of opening of bankruptcy proceedings coming from the date of adoption by arbitration court of the decision on recognition of the debtor by the bankrupt and about opening of bankruptcy proceeding, allocated and classified the factors influencing results of bankruptcy proceedings, gave the characteristic of each of them, considered ways of increase in efficiency of carrying out bankruptcy proceedings by management of influence of the offered factors and described the legal nature of the right of insolvency creditors in the case of bankruptcy. A possibility of receiving the fullest satisfaction of the requirements defines the legal status of insolvency creditors in the procedure of bankruptcy proceedings. The right of control over competitive management is distinguished from fixed assets of providing the specified possibility of the called subjects. In proceedings raise a set of the questions which not fully investigated, and the insolvency law (bankruptcy) demands the correct understanding and right application.
Abdurakhmanov S. Kh. dwells on such a problem as the need to replenish the register of creditors' claims after the court makes a decision on the completion of insolvency proceedings. According to the author, in order to fill this gap and resolve further problems, it is necessary to consolidate the provision or clarify the issue of inclusion in the register of claims of creditors of the debtor after the court makes a decision on the completion of insolvency proceedings, in accordance with which it is determined that the costs of publishing the claims of the creditor, as well as other expenses incurred in connection with the presentation of the creditor's claims after completion of the procedure shall be recovered from the applicant of these claims. The problems identified by the author and the proposals formulated will contribute to the solution of practical contradictions and issues in the field of bankruptcy regulation.
The main goal of bankruptcy proceedings is to maximize the satisfaction of creditors. In connection with the formation of the bankruptcy estate and its distribution between creditors, the most important duty of the bankruptcy trustee remains - maintaining a register of creditors' claims. A special procedure is proposed by Pavlova G.G. for the exclusion by the registrar of creditors from the registry. The Bankruptcy Law does not allow for a different conclusion of insolvency proceedings against a legal entity, except for its liquidation. At the same time, a proposal is considered to exclude from the Bankruptcy Law obstacles to return from bankruptcy proceedings to external management.
Falk Tischendorf analyzes that Insolvency proceedings pursue the goal of the fullest possible satisfaction of creditor claims from the sale of the debtor’s assets. Receivership proceedings may be commenced after any other stage of the bankruptcy when the debtor’s solvency cannot be restored. The overall timeframe for this procedure is six months which may be extended according to the general rules by up to six months. At the same time, it is not uncommon for receivership proceedings to last several years, in particular in the case of bankruptcies of major companies.
As the Russian economy continues to struggle, issues relating to insolvency (bankruptcy) remain the priority for both local and foreign creditors. Kokorin I. in this article provides an overview of the legal framework of insolvency proceedings in Russia, with an emphasis on such pressing issues as challenging "bleed-out" transactions and liability of controlling persons. We also include the most recent statistical data, which may be helpful in shaping the expectations of companies finding themselves in insolvency scenarios and creditors contemplating their bankruptcy strategies.
By Bolloev C.V. Russia has had a series of bankruptcy regulations and laws in place since 1992, which have been subject to regular changes and amendments. Notably, in recent years, a number of important amendments were made to Russia’s bankruptcy laws that altered the circumstances in which a company is obliged to make a bankruptcy filing and introduced two types of insolvency proceedings for natural persons. Some of these amendments are yet to be tested in the courts to ascertain their exact scope. Bankruptcy law provides for several options including reorganisation and rehabilitation of an insolvent company and debt rescheduling for natural persons as an alternative to liquidation and seizure of property.
Ariane Lambert-Mogiliansky, Konstantin Sonin, Ekaterina Zhuravskaya  studied the nature of judicial bias in bankruptcy proceedings following the enactment of the 1998 bankruptcy law in Russia. The two main findings are as follows. First, regional political characteristics affected judicial decisions about the number and types of bankruptcy proceedings initiated after the law took effect. Second, the quality of the regional judiciary affected performance of firms under the re-organization procedure: in regions with low quality judges, firms that were re-organized according to the 1998 law had significantly lower growth in sales, labor productivity, and product variety compared to firms not subject to bankruptcy proceedings. In contrast, in regions with high quality judges, firms in re-organization outperformed firms not in bankruptcy proceedings. This effect of judicial quality on the performance of re-organized firms was stronger when governors were politically popular. These findings are consistent with the view that politically strong governors subverted enforcement of the 1998 bankruptcy law.
Philip R Wood studied the Law of Bankruptcy in Russia. Russia now has a full stage 3 bankruptcy law of 2002. The law was profoundly influenced by previous abuses in the 1990s whereby the managers of enterprises would force them into bankruptcy and then buy them from a complaint insolvency administrator for a knock-down price.
Methods
For examination of insolvency proceeding, various scientific methods will be used. The first method is analytical which allows to assess the current state of the Russian legislation regulating bankruptcy as well as to predict its further development within the framework of reduction of possibility to abuse the rights using norms of Bankruptcy law in Russian Federation. The functional method will be used to determine the purpose and grounds of the legislation on governing the activity of subjects in insolvency and to identify the legal mechanisms of bankruptcy proceeding in this area. The comparative legal method helps to make a qualitive comparison of Russian and foreign legislative norms in the sphere of regulation of insolvency in order to identify similarities and differences. Finally, the formal legal method will help to analyze specific legal norms governing the rights and obligations of creditors, debtors and the arbitration manager to interpret  them and clarify the meaning of legal concepts used in the field of insolvency proceeding.
Results Anticipated
Preliminary analysis of the works devoted to the problem of insolvency proceeding in bankruptcy and the data on case law show that there will be several outcomes. The analysis of works by Russian scientists reveals that it is necessary to study the mechanism for regulating bankruptcy proceedings, contradiction in judicial practice, abstract legal positions and norms. It means researches have different views and they differently determine the same subjects. They regard Bankruptcy law in its characterization in terms of creditors but the others think Bankruptcy law supports debtors. I infer that the problem of characterization of law should be considered fairly from both views in bankruptcy. This gives the perspective of reduction of abuse of rights by both parties. Achieved outcomes, grounded on case law display numerous problems and oversights. 
Preliminary analysis of the data allows to outline results in terms of law enforcement of parties rights protection in insolvency. The data is presented by bankruptcy cases. It shows that the arbitration manager, creditors, debtors abuse rights of each other. The results support the idea that legislative regulation is necessary. It suggests that it is needed to consider the statuses of the parties in insolvency and correct them. The data proves that the court should have more possibilities to control them.
All this determines the solution of the problem of rights abuse. Correction of law plays a fundamental role in bankruptcy. I hope me research will be useful in state social and economic politics to solve economic problems of business.
Conclusion
The baseline results of the present research enable me to conclude that Russian Bankruptcy law requires changes. It means that Bankruptcy law is not perfect and there are some existing gaps. Lawyers note that insolvency regulation is the most dynamically developing area of law in developed foreign countries, while the state economy dictates the constant updating of relevant standards. It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the studying of norms protecting the rights of debtors because case-law of courts confirms a large number of abuses by creditors. This study can, therefore, be regarded as adding to scientific papers about insolvency proceeding. In the context of abuses rights by creditors, another interesting aspect emerges, that of the abuses rights by the other participants of bankruptcy proceeding. The potential for this research lies, first of all, in enriching the methodology, which can be achieved through a analyze theory application and by incorporating functional research methods. As far as  legal cases is concerned, it seems meaningful to supplement the data obtained by analysing statistics. The main contribution of this research is placing the study through the theoretical prism into the field of practical studies. The findings are essential for legal practice and for future study. The results can be applied for educational purposes, namely, for learners to differentiate problems and perspectives, to use proper terminology and to figure out in the sphere of bankruptcy. They may have largely practical implications for legal students, practicing  lawyers and arbitration managers, legal experts, and law enforcement officials.
I believe that the methods employed in the study could be fruitful in the long run as they open up a whole range of new opportunities of  drawing up more correct norms in the law. Moreover, they serve to work out the overall approach to fill the gaps in the bankruptcy legislation by providing various tools for analysis and correction.
Since the project focuses mainly on settings goals and objects and relevant literature review, it will follow descriptive research designs built on qualitative methods.
To sum up, I would like to emphasize that the project will be an attempt to develop the area of bankruptcy for further study of insolvency proceeding as the findings contribute to the empirical literature on this topic.
