Introduction
Background. Jurisdictions in the world constitute various regimes of property. Some of them do not have any special regularities towards matrimonial regime of property, others have adopted a system of community property as the example of a matrimonial regime, that contains also matrimonial debts. Taking into consideration specific regulation of this institution in Russia, we have the third way of interpretation matrimonial property, as generally the debts are related to each of the spouses. 
Due to the statistics there were about 13000 citizens who were adjudged as bankrupts in the 2017 year. Therefore, our present day life is unthinkable without distribution of family property under insolvency. The problem is that the number of cases are increasing but there is no uniformity in legal regulation of this institute.  The issues are many and actually have achieved a kind of urgency in our times, especially one connected with different approaches used in Civil Code and special law. The debate over these approaches gain popularity, but the amount of literature on this subject is still inadequate. As a result, this problem is currently an active area of research.
Problem statement. The purpose of the study is to identify interrelation between general and special rules within distribution of family property under insolvency. 
In addressing this problem i propose to investigate the following research questions:
How do the general and specific rules correlate through the regulation of the distribution of family property under insolvency?
What kind of property constitutes bankruptcy estate in a case of spouse’s insolvency?
Are there legal possibilities for the institute of the “joint bankruptcy” in the Russian law?
Delimitations of the study. Distribution of property is a very general institute in the civil law as it consists of such distribution during divorce, creditors recourse, bankruptcy and etc. In the following research I will try to specify the field of the study and investigate such categories as community of property, bankruptcy estate, joint bankruptcy in terms of Russian and foreign legislation. 
Professional significance. The distribution of  property under insolvency is a rather specific institution in civil law as it contains rules from various branches of law. Doctrine separately investigates aspects of the topic in context of civil and family branches of law. My aim is to analyse distribution of property in terms of correlation all noted branches of law. 
Moreover, it seems to be increasingly important to change prevailing beliefs that the institution of joint bankruptcy will not work in Russia and set priorities for further analysis of it. 
Definitions of Key Terms. According to Ayotte and colleagues “bankruptcy is the singular, defining moment of the financial crisis”. “Matrimonial property regime refers to any property relationship which arises or may arise from a marriage or registered partnership both between the spouses/registered persons and vis-à-vis third persons”.
Literature review
Distribution of family property is lying in different branches of law: family, civil and bankruptcy law and there is no universal act that can regulate social relations within this institute.  The following literature review includes an analysis of useful and potentially important articles and paper works. Mostly articles contain information about nature of the community of property, its striking features and possible legal regulation rather than paying particular attention to distribution of matrimonial property under insolvency.
It is crucial to start the analysis of distribution of family property with throwing light on community of property. Distinctive features of the institution were defined by Newcombe: equality, reliance on presumptions, arising by operation of law. Quite a number of scholars (Kirkwood, 1936) stated that adoption of community property was just a step towards women’s rights. However, Newcombe stated that the real factor were found in “convincing women to come west so that the young delegates could marry”. 
Cooke and colleagues say that “community of property provides for the automatic sharing of property and liabilities during the relationship”. They bind community of property with martial relations or with registered partnerships (this institution is not implemented in Russian legislation). Despite the fact that community of property consists not only of property but debts too, the potentially important  advantages of this regime are protection for the family and property. But still the authors claim that “partners should choose the regime of their property by contributing for the benefit of both the union and their own individual interests”. 
Although community of property is an extremely common regime of property, some scientists point out that marriage is no longer described as a traditional relationship between man and women and legislation should be altered. Resetar believes that “this difference between old and new concepts of marriage and matrimonial relations inside and outside the home requires re-questioning the community of property” (2008, p.2), even though it seems to protect women from inequality of spouses, both within and beyond the family. 
Due to “the trend appearing on the horizon with regard to younger generations and their division of housework and childrearing may induce the modification of the classical ideology of the traditional family”. However, the existence of this trend does not seem to be an indicator of the new approach to the family. It is still vital to obtain substantial independent positions of husband and wife.  
In the following research I do not go deep into the investigation of community of property generally. It is more exceedingly important to emphaise what consequences to the property may appear in the situation of the spouse’s bankruptcy. Theories as formulated by Boele-Woelki exerted great influence on my theoretical thinking about the general field of study. The authors’ approach which stands for distinguishing benefits of the matrimonial community of property in the case of creditor’s recourse is an essential contribution to the field of study. Boele-Woelki explains that capital of spouses is more safeguarded in countries which do not apply matrimonial community of property as the creditors are not able to gain possession on it. 
On the other hand, in systems with matrimonial community of property there are two possible cases in distribution of family property.  According to Boele-Woelki in Italy “the private creditors of a spouse have recourse only against the share of their debtor” and it seems to protect other spouse’s property against creditors. Moreover, in case of disposition of accommodation which is the only place family can live, there may be a delay for such actions (Property and death in bankruptcy). It is meant to be a guarantee for the spouse and children of the bankrupt.
Another possible situation is when creditors have recourse against the entire property of the spouses which is an example of Russian and French systems of law.  The second situation raises various kinds of problems if there are unfair creditors or concluded agreement between spouse and his colorable creditors. Even though there are some legal protection like “given consent thereto in a case of recourse for debts”, it still generates controversy whether community of property is an effective regime for the matrimonial capital.
Some European systems have exception to the equal division rule. According to Ferrand and colleagues, there is “the so-called unequal division rule, which in some cases, especially when marriages have been of short duration, can entail that little is left for equal division”.  Moreover, flexibility for variation of the shares may be possible gains on property during the marriage. Therefore, community of property does not always seem to meet the criteria for equality.
The knowledge about joint bankruptcy is far from being comprehensive as there is a lack in the legal regulation. Although there are precedents in adjudging spouses bankrupts, they are questionable from the point of Russian law. On the contrary, foreign law is aware of this institution. If spouses have lots of joint debts and enough exemptions to protect their property, “filing a joint bankruptcy is usually the better option” (Should I File a Joint Bankruptcy With My Spouse?). 
Joint bankruptcy has significant value for the efficiency of compearance in the courts. This position is clearly seen in the articles of Russian authors. Zemlyanova insists on the fact that legal precedents go further than legislation and it is extremely essential to adjust legislation to the current needs of the modern life. Thus, it can conserve time (as instead of two bankruptcy cases there will be one united) and it is far more adequate for forming bankruptcy estate. 
Although many issues have been analysed and discussed, much remains to be done in the investigating field. Most concepts about distribution of family property under insolvency focus too narrowly on one angle of the problem or on the contrary too generally. Apart from that, doctrine does not have any fundamental monographs that will provide answers for the problems arising in legal precedents. These approaches should be theoretically challenged in order to be more actual and practical. 
Methods
In this section I seek to explain the methods used in carrying out the study. The chosen methodology will probably take a definite shape as the study is progressing.
One of the most vital method is analysis as there is a necessity in investigation all the current literature on the problem of the research in order to assign typical approaches proposed by the renowned scholars. Apart from the doctrine, there is a huge amount of legal rules in family and civil  legislation that should be under observation too. The analysis of the legal precedents is urgent too as sometimes legal act and precedents are as wide as poles apart.
Statistical method is used to identify the amount of bankrupts in Russia, legal precedents connected with distribution of family property and judicial decisions on joint bankruptcy. 
Results anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned.  The results anticipated are intended to provide answers to my research questions and clarify all controversy points of the distribution of family property.
The temporary results highlight that there is a lack of legal regulation in some aspects of the studied institution. It might be expected that through the process of researching the field of study I will be able to propose some possible recommendations in order to amend legal acts and bridge the gap in the legal regulation. Moreover, I will try to verify interrelation of general and specific rules by virtue of investigating Civil Code and other federal acts. Thus, there will be a chance to devoid of some serious drawbacks.
To crown it all, the conformation of the results will be sought by analyzing corpus data and rest on skill and care. 
Conclusion
Within a long historical time scale family relationships were developing and today we can see a very considerable change in them as women and men gained equal rights. It seems to be obvious that relationships in family are coherent with regime of property. One of the most requested regime of property is community of property and mostly all problems appear when distribution of property appears. 
Community of property has its own benefits and drawbacks. Sometimes this institution does not meet today’s requirements as was seen from the viewpoints of scholars. In systems where matrimonial community of property exists, there will be always one party who will not be safeguarded: spouse or creditors. However, legislation is imposed to provide a balance between interests of all participants of legal relations.  
There is no accuracy in regulation such institution as joint bankruptcy: legal acts do not contain such terms but courts conduct trials and adjudge spouses as bankrupts. Foreign legislation goes far further and has an extensive practice in this question. Consequently, Russian legislation should be also altered in a way it will be in conformity with the international trends and necessities of Russian citizens.  
In spite of attempts at analysing issues connected with the distribution of property, there is still no comprehensive investigation on it.  It appears from what has been discussed earlier that serious attention should be paid to the noted problems in order to make our legal regulation more effective.  I can state that the project will be an attempt to provide a fertile area for further analysing distribution of property under insolvency.
