Introduction
Background. Within a long historical time scale the concept of franchising activity has acquired success in West legal frameworks, including European system. 
In the meantime the practice of franchising has impact on Russian legal and economic system despite newish appearance of juridical prescription, which regulates this type of entrepreneurial activity. The recency of legal regulation of franchising demand modification in coherence with advanced European legislation. As the basis of comparative analysis we address to the German legislative system by virtue of methodological recommendations existence. Adoption of methods and practical approaches from the foreign legislation can eliminate lacks in domestic law system.
In Germany franchising has grown tremendously in the last few decades. The increasing quantity of organization, which uses franchising-system, is explained by high grade legal support. 910 franchise networks are registered as on 2007, the amount of profit reached 41 billion Euros. While in Russia there are no reliable statistical data about the number of franchises. This is due to the fact that many companies withdraw from the contract with the franchisee and replace it with a number of other agreements that attracts risks upon both parties. 
Problem Statement. From now on we assume that Russian franchiser struggles such as lack of control of franchisee transactions, concealment of transactions from the legal owner purposely of underreporting. The problem of a possibility of agreement cancelation and conducting competitive business, disclosure of sensitive information is also essential.
Hence the aim of this paper  is to develop legal and practical recommendations for franchising activity administration in Russian Federation on the comparative ground with Federal Republic of Germany. The formulated hypothesis shows the necessity of considering the following challenges:
1. to investigate legal regulation of Russian and German franchising activity.
2. to emphasize benefits and shortcomings of legal control to the subsequent practical implementation of legislative establishments in the Russian legislation
Professional Significance. The crucial component of this paper is the fact that consequent growth of the Russian market is an impulse to attracting investors, who are interested in expansion of the local business. Modification of the legislation in Russia and implementation of the European provisions can play a vital role in an inducement of foreign capital. Ñoincidently it is necessary to consider that entrepreneur and investor can bear risk since political instability, potential entering of embargo and termination of business contacts. However, certainty of legal regulation and accessibility of procedural instructions, which are open to European investor can eliminate distrusts in financing of small and medium- sized  Russian enterprises.
Delimitations of the Study. The main focus of the research is concentrated on the value of legislative norms of Russian and German law, which regulate franchising on the comparative analysis of these systems. 
The paper presents the value of the legislative rules of the Russian and German law regulating franchising on the basis of the comparative analysis of these systems. Most notably, we investigate legislative consolidation and practical application in Russian law, further the German system analogous.
This paper doesn't contain the economic analysis, the research is made within the legal doctrine and legislation.
Literature Review
A considerable amount of scientific work on franchising activity has been done  in the economic field. Although, the legal aspect touched upon in research papers by Ilan Alon and Moshe Banai, Patricia Herrfeld, Vanessa Solis-Rodriguez and Manuel Gonzalez-Diaz, Cosima M?ller, Alexey Ustyuzhanin.
In this paper we firstly refer to the Russian franchising experience.  The necessity of comparative analysis is suggested by scientific works. Ilan Alon and Moshe Banai notice that restrictive legal frameworks are one of the consequences of undeveloped business activity of this type in Russia.
Like most authors we convinced that lack of specific franchising agreement in the legislation and the law on a franchising causes practical issues. Russian entrepreneurs use agreement of Ñommercial ñoncession which is regulated by Ñhapter 54 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. The key legislative condition under Chapter 54 is that agreements will be invalid if they aren't written and registered. Also this Chapter contains a set of requirements for validity of contract.
The results obtained by A. Ustyuzhanin in dissertation suggest that one of the key problem, which lies in the narrowness of Commercial concession concept. This type of agreement doesn’t include variety of franchising aspects. Besides, provisions of Chapter 54 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation contain shortcomings which promote that subjects of the franchising relations refuse from conclusion of the contract of Commercial concession and use formats of other agreements (licence agreements on sales of goods and services). This problem is connected with the fact that provisions of Chapter 54 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation contain two points, unacceptable for the franchiser. The former implies the subsidiary liability of the franchiser. It means that in the case franchisee is not able to accept the claims of final customer realized by it, franchiser is due to fulfill this duty. The second article contains provisions according to which the franchisee, who has in an orderly manner fulfill the duties achieves the right to the conclusion of the contract for new term on the same conditions. It means that the franchiser is deprived of an opportunity to review terms of the contract in case of its prolongation, for example, to increase a royalty rate, to change conditions of advertising activity of the franchisee. Author argues that is absolutely unacceptable in 	current economic environment. Named above provisions are inadequate for entrepreneurial relations and obstruct use of a franchising in domestic economy.
The paper presents thereafter German experience of franchising activity. The approach given by German researchers is compatible with Russian. In this system there is no franchise contract. By analogy with the Russian practice German entrepreneurs use a number of other agreements. However, taking German experience into consideration, we can notice that the practical issue of this topic was widely investigated by Patricia Herrfeld, who highlights the practical importance of realization of juridical prescriptions in German legislation.
In the first instance, it should be noted that the German legislation provides similar Russian requirements about the conclusion of the agreement. The licence agremeents are also valid in franchising realization. The German authors emphasize that the liberty of choice in case of the conclusion of the agreement is provided to entrepreneurs. It can be regarded as a preference, per contra in practice it causes the enormous number of court claims in view of incorrect interpretation by agreement parties. 
Recent investigations offered recommendations of the conclusion of the interim agreement. The conclusion of such agreement implies abstract information, which will be specified in the principal agreement. First of all, this agreement will contain responsibility for disclosure of sensitive information, it also will eliminate lack of information of franchisee on the list of the data, which has key value for the agreement.     
Methods
The paper aims to give a comprehensive account of comparative analysis of two legal systems. The aim of this paper is to highlight preferences and deficiency of franchising activity in Russian and German legal systems.
As scientific and informative tools and acceptances general scientific methods are used. First of all, we use a comparative method as we consider benefits and shortcomings of franchising system of Germany and Russia. Comparison will be constructed on the analysis of such source as the Civil Code. 
Secondly, pronouncement of the assumption of feasibility of legislative borrowings functioning will be considered by means of a prognostic method.
Thirdly, we are intent upon using the systematic- and structural method by means of which will be carried out the analysis of the main sources.   
Results Anticipated
We are confident that in the end of our research the overall goal that we determined will be accomplished.
Extracted benefits may be particularly used as the basis for legal and practical use. The research is expected to result in formulating  of significant terminology, methodical developments, other approaches to practice of franchising. Extracted results can form the basis of adoptions, including legislative. 
Also received results can be the basis for continuation of scientific activities on this topic.  
Conclusion
The paper can presents a new approach to the basis for legislative improvements. In its turn it will eliminate doubts of entrepreneurs in the choice of franchising as business development form. The German practical developments,  which will be evolute in the research process may be able to reduce degree of insufficient knowledge and complexity of contractual relationships registration. It cannot be excluded that achieved results can be used as methodological base during development of regional programs for small and medium - sized entrepreneurships evolution.
