Introduction
Background. For the last decades, copyright has undergone multiple changes due to the development of modern information and telecommunication technologies. The evolution of intellectual property's relations is connected mostly with creating new types of copyright objects, which status has not been fixed by legislation. The phenomenon of fan art is an example of that.
For the moment, works of fan creativity represent a wide-scale body of daily posted and distributed literary, art, musical, audio-visual, game electronic products.
For example, according to the data on 19.01.2017, fans put on the Russian-language site ficbook.net more than 2,486,714 fanfics on 24,748 different fandoms. And this is only a small part of the author's fan culture.
The phenomenon of authorship of original works` fans is more and more popularized every year, remaining outside the framework of legal regulation. New objects of copyright with uncertain status, increasing number of consumers and creators of fan culture, all this threaten an infringement of authors` or copyright holders rights.
The current situation is common both for the legal system of the Russian Federation and foreign legislations.  
In view of this, the urgency of the research is driven by the objective need to determine legal status of fan works and their place in the system of copyright protected objects.  
Problem Statement. The topic of our study has not received adequate attention in the world legal literature yet. Existing Russian and foreign scientific works focused on the examination of legal nature of fan works differ in the appraisal of their legal status:  
the first legal scholars take up the position that the works are not objects of copyright; 
the second academic lawyers uphold the position that fan art objects are referred to the category of derivative works; 
the third lawyers prove that fan works can be independent copyright protected works.
In our own sight, we concede the position of fan works as derivative works within the framework of Russian copyright law is fair and correct. Therefore, we establish this statement as a hypothesis of the research.
The purpose of the research is to investigate fan works, their characteristics, in order to determine their place in the system of copyright protected objects as a kind of derivative works and to establish if it is necessary to amend Russian legislative acts.  
To achieve the purpose, it is necessary to solve the following objectives of the research:
to define a term of fan art, its characteristics, features of creation and dissemination of fan works in Russia and foreign countries;
to analyze approaches to the legal essence of a derivative work and a fan work developed in the legal science of the Russian Federation and foreign countries;
to examine and compare the legal and regulatory framework, law enforcement practice of the Russian Federation and foreign countries related to the regulation of status of fan works and the legal regime of derivative works, 
to analyze the mechanism for exercising the rights to fan works by their authors under Russian and foreign copyright law;
to correlate the actual mechanism of exercising the rights to fan works and the legislatively fixed legal regime of derivative works under Russian copyright law;	
to consider the protection of the rights of original works authors.
Delimitations of the Study. In this paper, copyright legislations of the Russian Federation, the USA, Australia, international legal agreements governing the creation, the procedure of exercising author's rights and the protection of derivative works, devoted to issues of the legal regulation of statuses of fan works and derivative works, will be examined. 
The study of legislations and scientific works of US and Australian jurisprudents will be conducted only to identify the most successful legal mechanisms for regulating statuses of fan works and derivative works, which can be subsequently applied in the Russian legal system.
Professional Significance.  The research will expand the theoretical basis for studying fan works from a legal point of view. Determination of status and regime of fan works will allow to include such objects of copyright in the legal regulation sphere, and it becomes a guideline for lawyers in resolving disputes between authors of original works and fans.
Definitions of Key Terms. “Fanfiction is a story created by a fan”. Rebecca Tushnet deﬁnes it as “any kind of written creativity that is based on an identiﬁable segment of popular culture, such as a television show, and is not produced as professional writing”.
“Fan art is a work of fan creation expressed in any form”.
“A fan work is a work created by a fan of an original work, which uses elements of this original work's form and has an objective and subjective connection with it”. 
Literature Review
The normative basis for our investigation was the acts of Russian legislation and foreign legislation, international acts, legal precedents of Russia and foreign courts (for example, Suntrust v. Houghton Mifflin Co, State of Victoria v Pacific Technologies (Australia) Pty Ltd, etc.). 
Both the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, the US Copyright Act of 1976, and either Australian Copyright Act of 1968 do not contain provisions relating to fan works, or any legal constructions or concepts that could be used in regard to the phenomenon of fan art. 
However, the article 1260 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation and the article 2 of the Berne Convention of 1886 contain, in relation to the list of derivative works, the wordings "other alterations of a literary or artistic work"  and "other similar works", which indicate that the legislators left the opportunity to supplement the list by new copyright objects. Thus, if the hypothesis of our research will be confirmed, we will be able to define the objects of fan creativity as a group of "other" derivative works. 
The basis of our research in respect of general legal provisions about copyright objects were the works of Soviet-era coryphaeuses of civil law  and modern jurisprudents. These scholarly works are rather theoretic than empiric, so it might be used as a theoretical foundation.
Aspects of legal nature of derivative works were studied in the academic paper by Kovalkov. He examines the problems of regulation of derivative works’ regime and partly considers the question about regulating the status of fan works. His research does not contain a full and detailed analysis of the legal regime of fan works, however, those approaches that he establishes in relation to derivative works in accordance with the copyright legislations of Russia and the United States can be used as a basis for theoretical underpinning that works of fan creation are a type of derivative works.
The topic of our research directly has not been investigated in both foreign and Russian legal sciences. Some Russian and American legal theorists have indirectly mentioned the need to study the issue of fan works’ status in copyright, but the problem has not become the subject of independent research, remaining a popular topic of academic debates on legal websites and in personal blogs of lawyers. 
It is worth remarking the Anglo-Saxon legal system researchers tend to maintain the position of fan works as independent objects of copyright due to the existence of the doctrine of fair use. The majority of Russian jurists tend to prove that fan objects are derivatives works. 
The certain aspects of the research topic are examined by the following Russian and American academics and practicing lawyers. 
Most of the authors investigate only a one kind of fan art, more specifically, fan literary works or fanfiction. In the studies jurisprudents generally concentrate on the terms of fanfic and fanfiction, their characteristics and legal nature, classifications of fan works, the consideration and analysis of cases of commercial and non-commercial using original literary writings by fans, the fan culture’s impact on the original works’ consumer market, the rights of fan authors and mechanisms for protecting such rights, problems of original works` protection from illegal use by fans. 
Especially it is worth to focus on the scientific works of Russian jurist Gualina and American copyright legal scholar Tushnet. 
Gualina in research article "The legal nature of the works of fan art" makes an attempt to compare the legal regulation of status of derivative works with the legal regulation of status of fanfics. In addition, she suggests to set legal approach to fanfics as the way of free use of works, and, therefore, she wants to make the amendments to cl. 1274 Civil Code of the Russian Federation.
Rebecca Tusnet was one of the first legal researchers whose lay the foundations for studying the phenomenon of fan art in terms of law. Her most famous academic article "Legal Fictions: Copyright, Fan Fiction, and a New Common Law" has influenced on the development of American doctrine. She considers fanfics are copyright protected objects under the doctrine of fair use. The author insists on the position that fanfics deserve the protection of copyright law in the same measure as original works.
It is also important to focus on the research article written by Kallenbach P., Middleton A. In the academic paper, the authors contrast the legal regulation of fan works' regime under Australian and American copyright law, comparing doctrines of fair use and fair dealing. They also point out that works of fan art can be recognized as independent copyright protected objects under the doctrine “scènes à faire”. In addition, in the article the authors analyze the influence of fan works on a consumers market of original works in the context of economy. 
It is worth to mention research article "The doctrine of  fair use of works in the modern US copyright law" written by Russian legal scholar Lutkova. In the article she analyzes the doctrine of fair use, elements of the doctrine and its practical application. The author also reviews a possibility of applying the doctrine in the legal system of Russia. She compares the terms "derivative work" and "secondary work". This research article is interesting to us from the point of view to study the American approach to fanfics as copyright protected objects under the doctrine of fair use. Among other things, we can also analyze the need to borrow the doctrine of fair use in the Russian legal system in order to regulate the status of fan works. 
Works mentioned above were used as a preliminary base for the research. However, these studies do not provide a careful analysis of the status of fan works in the system of copyright protected objects. The authors investigate only the certain points of the research topic, examine the one type of fan works (fanfiction) and pay more attention to the economic aspects of regulation of fan works’ regime, rather than legal.
Our research is aimed at extending the existing theoretical basis of derivative works’ investigations and filling the gaps in scientific knowledge of legal nature and status of fan art by formulating and proving a general legal approach to fan works as a kind of derivative works, emphasizing the distinctive features of fan works as copyright protected objects. We will also make an attempt to characterize the legal influence of fan works on original works, proprietary and moral authors’ rights in order to define mechanisms of exercising copyrights for fans that would allow to balance the legal interests of authors and fans.

Methods
This part of the proposal explains methods used in carrying out the study. There is a great variety of means at our disposal for analyzing the true nature of fan works within Russian legislation frame and comparing with legal regulation of their status in other systems of law. Particularly, methods of enquiry (dialectical method, synthesis method, induction method, etc.) and specialist approaches (rather-legal analysis, legalistic method, comparative method, method of structural analysis, logical method, method of system analysis, etc.). 
The logical method, the comparative method and the method of system analysis are the main ones in the research. 
Using the logical method, we investigate the legal regulation of fan works’ status in all its complexity and diversity, including structure-functional connections and dependencies of their regime with other copyright protected objects.
The comparative method allows to compare and collate legal concepts, phenomena and processes, and to find out between them similarities and differences. This method was used during: 
analyzing approaches to the legal essence of a derivative work and a fan work developed in the legal science of Russian and foreign countries, 
examining and comparing the legal and regulatory framework, law enforcement practice of the Russian Federation and foreign countries related to the regulation of status of fan works and the legal regime of derivative works, 
comparing the mechanism of exercising the rights to fan works and the legal regime of derivative works under Russian copyright law.
The method of system analysis was used when we investigating the legal regime of Russian copyright protected objects and derivative works, and also when we defining the place of fan works in the system of copyright protected objects as a kind of derivative works.
It is worth to note that there is an astonishingly broad contemporary consensus on the need for a single framework for copyright methodology. The copyright issues, including the problems of investigation of fan works, are many and actually have achieved a kind of urgency in our times.
Results anticipated
This part of the proposal will report on the results which to be obtained with methods above mentioned.  Thus, we can establish the following results anticipated:
the Internet is the base for dissemination of fan culture objects;
depending on the form of a fan object, we can distinguish the following kinds of fan works: a fan movie, a fan art (in the sense of pictural art); fanfiction (literary works); a fan music (cover versions). Depending on the borrowing of characters or "universe" of an original work we can establish the following kinds of fan works: "work-universe", "work-character", "work-universe and character". Depending on the purpose of creating fan works -commercial works and non-commercial works; 
fan works under the Russian copyright law are derivative works, as they are creative, but secondary in relation to the original works (it is the inalienable and distinctive feature), contain borrowings from original works;
the amending Russian legislative acts of copyright is not required, it is necessary to interpret the provisions of article 1260 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation broadly;
not all fan works can be attributed to derivative works. If a fan borrows a storyline or ideas from an original work, creating entirely a new work with new characters and other copyright protected elements, such work will have no connection with the original, and will be recognized as an independent copyright protected object;
in order to balance legal interests of authors and fans, the Russian legislator can make fan works a part of the doctrine of free use or develop the institute of open license. 
The results anticipated are intended to challenge current thinking about fan works as isolated legal phenomenon and acts of plagiarizing. The findings of the research will identify some general lines of the approach for future development of such unexplored and promising field of copyright law.
Conclusion
The present research is devoted to the analysis of legal nature and status of fan works under the legislations of the Russian Federation and foreign countries (America, Australia), the determination of their legal regime and place in the system of copyright protected objects under the Russian copyright law as a type of derivative works.
The study is based on the use of scientific methods of enquiry (dialectical method, synthesis method, induction method, etc.) and specialist approaches (rather-legal analysis, legalistic method, comparative method, method of structural analysis, logical method, method of system analysis, etc.).
The research will expand the theoretical basis for studying fan works from a legal point of view and become a guideline for lawyers in resolving disputes between authors of original works and fans.

