Introduction
The first part of the study poses the problem, demonstrates relevance, describes the limitations and determines the professional significance of the investigation.

Background of the Study.
Any new business needs to be well thought over and comprehended. Entrepreneurs should make important preliminary decisions about development a firm. A business plan is a very good tool for its interpretation. In the modern conditions when the Russian business market is only established owners of businesses and people far from business sphere are looking for new possibilities to try themselves in the economy.
Entrepreneurship is a kind of creative activity, however the first steps in the enterprise sphere requires careful calculation and the ability to correctly predict their future. The business plan is the most inappropriate tool to achieve these issues. 
While such approach of establishing a new company as business planning is becoming more popular among professionals, it reveals that additional research seems needed to be carried out for deep understanding of planning business process.

Problem Statement.
The main goal of the business plan is to gain a full view about the prospects of firm development and to answer the questions which are most important for the businessman: Will it be worth to invest money in this business? Will it bring incomes which will pay back all time and money costs.
In order to achieve this goal and answer the questions we can formulate the tasks as:
To define concrete activities of the firm; 
To define the target markets and audience;
To formulate strategy and long-term and short-term objectives of the firm;
To predict difficulties, "reefs" which can prevent the practical implementation of the business plan.

Limitations of the Study.
There is huge amount of methods which can be applied in new business project development. Each of the methods includes many varieties of techniques and calculation methods. Undoubtedly, it is impossible to use all existing methods in my study. Thus, the limitations of my study are the narrowed set of methods.

Professional Significance.
Project development of new business is the significant tool which allows to plan the economic activity of the company for the long-term and short-term periods according to the requirements of the market and opportunities of receiving necessary resources. The following research proposal explains why business planning is one of the most important tools before and during realizing the business project. Moreover, it describes a collection of papers which will be useful for any person who wants to write a business plan and establish a new company. 

Literature Review
The basis for this study is provided with a large amount of literatures described theoretical and practical approaches and models of the new business project. Before it will be reviewed, it is necessary to give the definition of the business plan. A specialist in business planning J. D. Ryan gave simple but true definition of what business plan means for the entrepreneur: "To understand yourself and to sell yourself." (Ryan J. D., 2005).
In other words, business planning solves the following important problems:
determines the degree of viability and future sustainability of the enterprise, reduces the risk of entrepreneurial activity;
specifies business prospects in the form of quantitative and qualitative indicators of the system; 
attracts the attention and interest, provides support of company’s potential;
helps to gain valuable planning experience, develop a perspective view of the organization and its working environment.
A well written business plan is the best way of impressing potential financial backers, consider Blackwell E. in his book “How to Prepare a Business Plan”. Indeed, without this plan no bank or venture capital house will give you money for start-up or expansion. “How to Prepare a Business Plan” describes the way to prepare a high-quality business plan that will get the financial backing needed. The book includes cash flow forecasts and sample business plans, information on technology and the internet, case studies, also advice on expanding a business, planning the borrowing and monitoring business progress (Blackwell E., 2011).
Every new business project needs a comprehensive and detailed plan to survive among a huge number of competitors. This book helps entrepreneurs to understand how to take this important difficult step. 
However, there are authors who suppose that new business project development may be not really difficult. Berle and Kirschner in their work “Instant Business Plan: 12 Steps to Success” give the inside story about how to generate a business project to attract attention. They encourage readers to avoid wasting time and energy on complicated business plan preparation schemes; and optimize efforts to drive up profits. After reading the work entrepreneurs can coast all the way to a knockout plan for a profitable business (Berle G., Kirschner P., 2002).
Investment decisions have great importance for all companies. Especially if the company was only established it needs to receive investments (Northcott D., 1997). In his book “Capital Investment Decision-Making” author lets entrepreneurs to understand which methods are effective and valuable tools in supporting investment decision-making. This paper describes the use of both conventional financial analysis tools and selected emergent analysis approaches in the capital investment decision-making.
It is necessary to plan not only start of business but also actions for further development. Torok and Cordon, authors of “Operation Profitability: Conducting Management Audits” teach readers how to add value to services and increase revenue while giving your clients more of what they need. The paper explains in complete detail how to conduct a management audit that will give customers the essential information they need in modern competitive marketplace. At the same time, it enables CEOs to expand their range of services, strengthen business relationships, and increase profits (Torok R., Cordon P, 1997).
Most likely, it will be necessary to give a broader theoretical basis to the research and complete collection of papers applied for new business project development.

Methodology
This part of the proposal will explain which methods will be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis on the analysis of the obtained data. From the outset, it should be noticed that the methodology used is to a certain extent a developing one and will finally take shape as the study as progressing. 
Methods of business planning are the main instruments of entrepreneurs. There are various methods and approaches which allow to solve a wide range of issues. Many methods are well known and used not only in planning. Some methods are formalized and brought to the level of economic and mathematical models, while others have little description. All these methods can be used separately or in combination. Practitioners may not know all of them, but nevertheless it is desirable to have some ideas about their essence and the possibility of applying.
The basic methods of business planning are: 
A balance method; 
An experimental statistical method;
A standard method; 
An economic-mathematical method.
Each of the specified methods includes dozens and even hundreds of versions, receptions and ways of calculation (Manilovsky R. G., 2002).
In recent years several other approaches become more popular for business planning. 
A method of sensitivity; 
A stability check method; 
A limit analysis method; 
A method of return on the invested capital rates.
These methods are inherent in planning for the market economy conditions.
I would like to describe methods and approaches which will be applied in order to reach the purpose of the study.
The balance method is characterized by establishment proportions indicators of materials and costs. It is usually applied in the form of the counterbalancing tables containing existence and sources of resources formation and the corresponding requirements. With its help we can check the validity of calculations, an agreement of sections, and indicators at various stages of planning. The examples are the balance of working hours, balance of capacities, manpower.
Economic-mathematical methods and models. Their essence is that they allow to find quantitative expression of interrelation between the difficult social and economic, technological and other processes mediated in indicators with small expenses of time and means. In modern conditions almost any indicator can be planned by using of an economic-mathematical method. Application of this group of methods promotes elimination of subjectivity in planning and increases the scientific level of the plan validity. However, application of these methods requires the exact mathematical description of an economic task and often an expert assessment of the obtained data.
The analysis of sensitivity allows to estimate how strongly change of the planned action, the conditions of its realization or one of initial parameters will affect the efficiency. The more strongly this dependence, the higher risk of the planned action. The analysis of sensitivity can be used for two tasks: 1. to identify the factors most strongly influence the result if the planned action would be realized (change of the income depending on the change in price of production, raw materials, release volume and so forth). The knowledge of these factors and their influence allows to reveal and consider in advance and, therefore, to reduce their negative consequences. 2. for the comparative analysis of projects during the solution about their inclusion in the plan. The sensitivity change of such factors as prices, sales volume, and interest rates for the credit is defined for each project. The preference is given to the least sensitive criterion. 
Stability check. This method is similar to the analysis of sensitivity in a form. Its main goal is to expect a process of events in the course of the plan implementation which can occur in an external environment and the internal environment of the enterprise. A method essence is scenario development of events succession in basic and the most dangerous options of the plan implementation. The income, losses, efficiency indicators are defined applying stability check method. Its advantage is that it allows to estimate the simultaneous influence of several parameters on the results. 
Limit analysis. This method allows to control and establish a profitable ratio of expenses and the income of the enterprise. If profit is the purpose of the enterprise, the limit analysis is an important method of its achievement. In planning the limit analysis can be used for establishment of prices of products, sales volumes, etc. One of its versions is the profitability point. 
It will serve the purposes of the present inquiry if all the methods described above will be used in the complex. 

Results anticipated
The following part of the research proposal represents the results expected by using the methods mentioned. We assume that the applying the set of selected methods we will have the best results in comparison with other methods. During the study we will answer the set questions and achieve tasks. Our hypothesis is that the chosen business project will be successful and profitable, but like any other it requires writing a competent business plan. Applying the chosen methods, we will know if our hypothesis is correct, find a target audience and market, calculate the necessary indicators for the successful start of business. The data gathered from the survey help to identify key factors which affect writing of business project.

Conclusion
In the last part of the research proposal I would like to briefly highlight the main ideas of the research.
As it was mentioned in the introduction, the paper will investigate in details various approaches, methods and problems concerning the process of business project development. Also it will put and achieve the goals and objectives of writing a business plan. 
Eventually, based on the anticipated results of the research we will develop the new business project which will be made using the chosen methodology and will correspond the issues of the study. The tasks posed become essential for understanding about which factors help to start a new business in the most proper way.
Limitations of this work relate to the fact that there are so many methods and approaches for writing a business plan. In this study it is impossible to use all existing methods, so I was limited to a few of them.
A business plan is a necessary tool in the process of developing a new business idea and in the future activities of the company. At the first stage business plan helps to define the company's activity, target audience, market, the profitability point, the price of the goods and other indicators. At the later stage this tool is needed in order to plan and predict scenarios of the company development.