Introduction
Background. During its operational performance, the company sets various objectives to maintain its effectiveness. However, not all the companies understand the importance of the business-processes modelling and assessment. As every company, in substance, consists of the set of business processes, it has to manage and control each one in order to reduce costs, optimize the goods and services production and provide working opportunities for its staff members.
The companies try to manage the relationship between themselves and customers by using different marketing techniques. With the use of strategic HR-management, organizations try to solve problems that evoke within the working process. However, companies usually tend to underestimate the buyer-supplier processes and relationships. This, in turn, may lead to the decreased effectiveness of the whole supplier-organization-customer system. Hence, it is of high importance to the company to manage the procurement and production processes integration as it improves the overall organizational performance. The supply chain management (SCM) can be a perfect way of managing this integration.
The SCM is useful for organizations due to the fact that it helps to control and improve the procurement and production processes taking into account the other ones that function in the company, e.g. sales and customer service. 

Problem Statement. The objective of the study is to develop the managing system of production and procurement processes in the organization in order to improve the effectiveness of the company.
The immediate aims of the research are the following:
to make the  literature analysis of the issue in order to gain relevant knowledge on the theme;
to define and describe the business-processes of production in the organization;
to analyze the procurement and production processes in the organization;
to define interrelationships between procurement and production processes in the organization;
to assess the effectiveness of procurement and production processes;
to derive conclusions and to make recommendations for the management of the organization.

Professional Significance. The professional significance of the research is that it will allow the development of the procurement and production processes management system within the strategic context of the company. This, in turn, will make possible the integration of these processes within the firm. As a result, the overall organizational performance may be improved because of the procurement-production business-processesoptimization.

Delimitations of the Study. The main delimitation of the study is that the data obtained during the research process may be of use only to those companies that have the business-processes of procurement and production, as well as the company under investigation. This means that the results of the study may be operationalized to the firms that have a chain of suppliers, or one supplier.
In addition, the results may then be operationalized to the organizations of the same or similar size. This is because large production companies usually have a more complicated chain of suppliers, and procurement processes may differ greatly among the companies of various sizes.
Furthermore, it has to be noted that during the research only the procurement and production processes are going to be considered. This refers to the fact that SCM involves various processes apart from those under the investigation, for example, sales, though they are not the subject of the following study.
Definitions of Key Terms. Business Process Integration (BPI)–“the ability to define a commonly acceptable business process model that specifies the sequence, hierarchy, events, execution logic and information movement between systems residing in the same enterprise or in multiple interconnected enterprises” (Liegener, 2012).
Supply chain management (SCM) – “management of material and information flow in a supply chain to provide the highest degree of customer satisfaction at the lowest possible cost”(Supply chain management, Business Dictionary, 2015). SCM connects the business-processes from the purchasing process to after-sales service.

Literature Review
The following review will be developed through systematic way of studying the existing literature on supply chain management and procurement and production processes integration. The supply chain management has been existing for a long time; however, not all the companies understood the importance of the effective SCM. The underestimation of this process could lead to the decrease in the profit and customers loyalty towards the organization. Various scientists and researchers give definition to the supply chain management in different contexts. The detailed consideration of the definitions helps me to give a broader theoretical basis to the investigation. Thus, Mentzer (Mentzer et al., 2011) states that this is the coordination of traditional business-processes and tactics across all business-processes within a particular company and the supply chain, and considers it from the point of long-term performance improvement of the organization and the supply chain itself. Hines (Hines, 2004) suggests that SCM creates the links between the parties in the supply chain and, thus, provides customer satisfaction. He also claims that using SCM a company will reduce its costs and improve the performance effectiveness as “unnecessary expenses, movements, and handling” (Hines, 2004, p. 76) will be driven out. Hence, it can be stated that the SCM refers to the managing and control of all members in the supply chain and all the processes related to their interaction within this chain. 
The supply chain members can be identified during the consideration of business-processes involved in SCM. The processes that form the unique structure of supply chain management in the organization are (Cooper et al., 2007):
Customer Relationship Management
Customer Service Management
Demand Management
Order Fulfillment
Manufacturing Flow Management
Procurement
Product Development and Commercialization
Returns
These processes consider the interrelations among the three main members of the supply chain management – customers, suppliers and an organization itself; however, there may be other parties involved in the supply chain, e.g. distributors, manufacturers and retailers. All the parties of supply chain are closely connected with each other, and the influence of some on others cannot be underestimated within the set of processes that occur during SCM.
The aim of SCM is to optimize and improve the processes involved in supply chain; it also makes possible the increase in the organization’s operational performance. The main advantages of effective SCM are the following (Supply Chain Management, IT knowledge portal, 2015): 
delays minimization – this refers to the optimization of processes connected with materials, products and specific equipment delivery. Moreover, it is also related to the decision-making processes in the buyer-supplier relationships. SCM allows errors reduction in the aforementioned processes, so the amount of delays decreases;
costs reduction – the SCM, as it has been mentioned earlier, can optimize the business-processes (BP) in the supply chain. This means that they will be less time-consuming and, hence, less costly. What is more, any supply chain malfunction negatively affects all the parties involved. Optimized BP allow avoiding the possible problems, and that, as a result, decreases the costs;
enhanced collaboration– as the SCM implies the interactions of members within the supply chain, it is of high importance to maintain effective relationship among all the parties in order to increase the supplier performance efficiency, and the efficiency others in the chain. The better collaboration is, the less costs are incurred within the supply chain.
However, as any management tool, SCM has its disadvantages. It can be suggested, the main disadvantage of SCM is the amount of resources it requires, i.e. finance and time. It is also a very complicated process, so the managers have to take into account the costs on its overlooking.
The processes of procurement and production that are going to be discussed in the investigation are the integral elements in the SCM processes.The procurement process is “the process of obtaining goods and services in the organization” (Procurement, Business Dictionary, 2015).  It is usually divided into five steps, and if performed accurately and correctly, they may provide the competitive advantage to the company and the integration with the production processes. The five steps of procurement are (The Procurement Process, Purchasinginsight, 2015):
define the business need – that is the need in different type of resources, products, and how it has to be satisfied;
develop the procurement strategy – managers have to define those methods and techniques that will provide the most effective solution of the issue, i.e. how to select an appropriate supplier;
supplier selection and evaluation -  refers to the selection of potential suppliers and their assessment in terms of the effectiveness and benefits to the company;
negotiation and award – the process of negotiation is crucial for the company as it has to decide whether to sign the contract or not within the current agreement framework. The company has to take into account the products quality, their price and terms of delivery;
induction and integration – this is the most important stage as it refers to the procurement and production integration. The aim of the processes integration is to build strong and effective relationships between buyer and supplier. In order to do so, the parties have to understand their business-processes, and every process within the buyer-supplier relation has to be on it place.
It can be suggested, therefore, that if companies try to integrate their procurement and production processes they may face some problems, e.g. the need in appropriate funding and time investments; however, the benefits from this integration may outweigh the costs as the main advantages of it if implemented correctly, are the business-processes optimization, overall costs reduction and, thus, better satisfaction of customer needs. 

Methods
First of all, the theoretical analysis will provide enough information about the supply chain management features, the procurement process in companies and the methods of supply chain assessment in an organization. This may allow making grounded conclusions about the optimization of SCM. Moreover, the information about business-process modelling will help in the procurement and production processes construction and description.
In order to gain the data about procurement and production processes a number of specific methods will be used. The method of modelling the business processes is going to be appliedand this will allow the analysis of the value stream mapping (VSM) stages. It also will help to define the distinctive features of VSM, for example:
the order completion priorities;
the process of orders generating;
the operational and production strategy;
the use of lean management approach;
the specifics of procurement process and its interrelationship with production process.
Moreover, the method of in-depth interview is going to be used in the research. The qualitative data obtained during the interview with the company’s production manager will provide the understanding of interdepartmental characteristics, the number and reliability of suppliers, and the stores management peculiarities. This also will help in indicating the problems of the company within the buyer-supplier context.The qualitative data analysis will allow making recommendations on the processes optimization.
Furthermore, the company’s documents analysis is going to be conducted. The analysis of the specific documents in the company will allow obtaining the specific information about such organizational processes, as the production,procurement and managing processes. 
Finally, ABC & XYZ analyses will provide information about the structure of the material purchases in the organization, and it may help to assess the company’s stock management. The calculations and tables processed during the ABC& XYZ analyses may give a visual proof of the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the supply chain management in the organization.
The study results will then be given to the top management of the organization. If the revised and optimized managing system of procurement and production processes is implemented correctly, the organization’s operational performance is suggested to improve. This will provide the competitive advantage and probably amend the effectiveness of the company.

Results Anticipated
The results anticipated may be the following. It is suggested that the defined and described procurement and production processes in the organization will have a not fully optimized structure. The reason for it is that it is difficult to overlook all the processes within the SCM context. Thus, the description of the graphs with the information about the processes interconnections in the procurement or production BP will give the appropriate basis to further analysis of the issue.
It is also anticipated that the current suppliers of the company will be divided into several groups reflecting the extent of meeting the organizational requirements. It is suggested that there are some suppliers that delay deliveries at a regular basis or they have problems with the documents on cargo. This may be due to the lack of knowledge about the processes of the organization under the investigation.

Conclusion
As a result the following conclusions may be given. The company is a set of business-processes connected with each other and, thus, it has a complex structure. This structure may be also complicated due to the interrelationship between the buyer (the organization), the supplier and customers. Moreover, if the management of the company wants it to be effective, they have to respond appropriately to the changes in these relationships.
The effective supply chain management allows regulation of the buyer-supplier-customer relationships by optimization and integration of procurement and production processes.This, in turn, may provide the competitive advantage to both the supplier and the company and result in costs reduction, profit growth and overall business-processes improvement.