Introduction
Background.
It is said that the business process of a company determine its behavior (Andersen et al., 1996). The success of any company depends on several characteristics, and the most significant one is – the way that company organizes its own internal process. Today each organization is inconceivable without constructive managing of business process.
Quite a number of scholars register various views about a shift in significance in studying business process. There are few theories that share the emphasis on implementation of enhanced business process model. However, despite this fact, when observing industry, we still experience much uncertainty about how to approach business process improvement projects and find that many such projects fail to achieve the expected benefits. This issue arouses a lot of interest. Moreover, as a result it has become an urgent priority for many companies all over the world. In my research I will try to pay more attention to the practical side. Nevertheless several theories will be considered.

Problem statement.
In my project I do presume to present a general recipe for achieving business process improvements, but rather a general perspective. The basic challenge in business process management is to find mechanisms that can help to specify the framework and features of how the operations of business can be conducted. The general aim of this proposal will simply be to attempt to provide a greater depth of knowledge about a previously studied account of tools for improving the whole situation in the organization. It is important to make a link with the existing knowledge on this subject. The main purpose of my project is to find specific set of tools that can be useful for company in order to optimize its business process system. To achieve the above aim, the project realized the following immediate objectives:
To give the definition of the business process.
To describe the peculiarity of the logistic business processes.
To analyze the current situation in the company and build a scheme of it.
To identify the weak place in the organization’s business process system, to recognize the role of this process.
To consider various optimization tools that can improve the situation.

Delimitations of the study.
I want to focus my attention on the logistic business processes. Regarding the limitations of the study there is a lack of literature resources about the peculiarity of logistic business processes. I will try to exploit available sources on relevant subjects.

Professional significance.
It will obviously be useful to follow and develop certain of Hammer’s insights (Hammer, 1990). The issue under consideration is said to be an urgent for all those companies who are engaged in business process optimization. In much of the literature is increasingly seen as currently significant to better understanding the nature of business process.

Definitions of key terms.
There are a lot of definitions of business process. In 1990 Davenport and Short define business processas a set of logically related tasks performed to achieve a defined business outcome (Davenport and Short, 1990). Davenport in his studies underlined the significance of resulting output, as one of the main aim of the company. In 2002 Gunasekaran and Kobu determine business process as a group of related tasks that together create value for a customer (Gunasekaran and Kobu, 2002). And I will agree with both these definitions. I combine them, and create a wider definition: business process is a group of logically related tasks performing to achieve a defined business outcome and that together create value for customers.
Since in my project I will focus my attention on the logistic business process, and as there are no certain definitions for it in the literature. It will suffice to create my own definition. It will be given in the next part of the research.

Literature Review
The following literature review will be developed through methodical way of studying the existing literature on the subject. The most important works have been made by 
First definitions of business process appeared in literature about 20 years ago. Since the 1990’s many authors attempted to create their own improved version of business process definition usually with one purpose: to try and orient business processes towards a particular direction highlighting only particular aspects (Jallow, et al., 2007).
In general, the business process isa chain of logically connected, repetitive activities, which uses company’s resources for processing goods (physical or virtual) in order to achievecertain measurable outcomes or products to satisfy needs of internal or external customers.It can be concluded that any organization consists of several business processes. 
Since the conception of the business processes optimization is quite complex, it is appropriate to limit it and to focus attention on the logistic business processes, as one of the main part for almost all companies. Numerous attempts have been made to give a solid grounding for the research on this specific type of business processes. A considerable amount of valuable work on this theme has been done to deepen and push forward the impact of importance and convenience of them related to the organization. However, it is still difficult to give the complete and holistic definition for this particular term (logistic business process).
Logistic business processes should address many of the aspects of production, including time, costs and quality. It is known that when anorganization successfully coordinates these logistical processes, it can track the process through production, consumption, storage and disposal. A functional logistical process also relies on the proper geographical location of all assets within the company.
Successfully optimized logistic business processescan help to find the best solution for manufacturing and distributing goods by considering how the market uses these products. As part of this process, a company should always consider the location of a product and analyze the various factors associated with these locations. Regarding various factors they can be as follows:
production costs;
personnel, the time and cost required for deconsolidation;
warehousing possibilities (cost and space). 
Nevertheless, a company shouldalso consider the factors that affect production quality and efficient transportation between hubs.
However, as for the problem of optimization it should be noticed that for both types of business process the same techniques and methods of analysis can be used.
A great number of studies were conducted. However, for a long time this type of research primarily addressed only general questions and was largely theoretical. For instance, Vergidis in his study he essentially focused his attention on theoretical grounding (Verdigis et al., 2008). The researcher chiefly examined most elementary characteristics and elements, while contemporary researchers recognize the necessity to narrow the focus of the study and to make it more specific. 
Although a considerable number of algorithms exist for dealing with process optimization problems in Manufacturing, there is a lack of algorithmic approaches for the optimization of business processes (Vergidis et al., 2008).Much of the recent research in the area of business process optimization has dealt with simple single-objective formulation that does not address the strong synergistic/anti-synergistic effects among individual activities that constitute a process design (Jallow et al., 2007).
However in this significantly developing sphere of business process optimization most of modern doctrines, when elaborated, can be theoretically challenged. For instance, Jallow’s theory do not to stand up to closer examination, especially within the framework suggested. The author fails to grasp implications of this technology. Hence, in this article primarily I want to focus on the practical side of the subject.
Veng-Ian Chan in his article emphasizes that for systematic and complete business process planning there must be techniques that support modeling, analysis and optimizationof business processes (Veng-Ian, 2006). Hence, it is needed to analyze the whole organization structure before the optimization. We need to recognize “the bottleneck areas”.
As it was said the whole organization is a set of different business processes. That is why we need to imagine the whole organization system in terms of several business processes. The table below illustrates the basic structure of any company. Four main business processes are represented. This model is quite conventional.
Although this approach is quite prejudiced, in any case it would be better to consider this approach. On the other side, it can be a very useful technique for identifying “the bottleneck areas” in the company. 
Japanese researcher Susumu Sasabe has suggested another absolutely new approach. It presumes to consider business process optimization from two main perspectives: European and Japanese. It is said that Europeans in order to optimize some processes presume that business processes are static in time and no external factors can affect them. So, basically after reproduction stage they will remain the same. But although it is a really great simplification it is known thatmanagers need to support the business processes which, contrary to the theory, tend not to remain static. And that is why I suppose Europeans perspective lacks quite a lot, as it is too illusory and bias. Europeans approach is also inappropriate for the local optimization (on the lowest level of management). It can be applied only for business processes on the middle and high level of management.
However, the question about its effectiveness is still remains equivocal. Manifestly this approach fails in a number of cases.
Regarding the Japanese approach they believe that all business processes are changeable. They suppose that there is no need to consider these processes as something static. Consequently, the main task for managers is to control and redirect these changes into the right direction. These actions should be controlled constantly. This approach implies the importance of well-timed decisions. It also can be applicable for all levels of management, since the changes affect all the layers of business processes. 
Both these approaches (European and Japanese) have their own advantages as well as disadvantages. But I suppose that the latter is more useful and necessary for organization which aims to become more effective.

Methods
This section explains the methods used in carrying out the study. It analyzes the process of optimization within a functual perspective. In my study I aim to explain the methods used in conducting the research. The main purpose of business process management methodology is to model, control and steadily improve all the process flows, inside and outside of the company.  
Basically, in my research I will apply the following methods:
BPMN (notation BPMN 2.0);
ARIS;
DMAIC
The BPMN methodology contains a group of management techniques that allow the company to identify weaknesses in the process, analyze them and improve the situation. Notation BPMN 2.0 is to a certain extent an evolving one and will take a more definite shape as the study is progressing.
My research will be also based on the ARIS methodology (Architecture of Integrated Information Systems) which was developed by Professor A. W. Scheer. The ARIS methodology includes the features of the different modeling approaches, reflecting different views on the studied system. 
There are the methodology of the structural approach (SADT, IDEF) and the object-oriented approach (UML, RUP). The ARIS methodology is based on the concept of integration and offering a holistic view on the process.
This methodology is based on the concept of integration and involves many useful techniques. There are the eEPC diagram, ERM, VAD, UML and others. This enables the model to describe business processes from different points of view. 
DMAIC (Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control) is also one of the best tools for the business process management. It is a data-drived quality strategy used to improve processes. It is an integral part of a Six-Sigma initiative, but in general can be implementer as a standalone quality improvement procedure (Smart et al., 2008).It is one of the greatest tools of business process optimization.

Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. Before making tentative conclusions, it will be necessary to investigate the current situation in the company, describe its structure in terms of business process.
The next step will be identifying “the bottleneck areas” in the company. To achieve this immediate purpose several interviews will be conducted. After problem identification, the role of this particular (problematic) business process in the whole organization will be determined. Then a dataset will be analyzed thoroughly. The methods mentioned above will be considered and as a result the most appropriate optimization tools will be verified.
It will include flowcharts and other graphical notations (such as BPMN and ARIS). All other results will be reported in the narrative text. The results anticipated are intended to further elucidate the potential of optimization process in this organization. The data will contribute material for the testing of my claim. My arguments will be exemplified by other experiments. Illustrations of business-process will provide deeper understanding of the current situation in the organization. To verify my position I will consider some comparable examples drawn from different sources.Logical implications will be represented.The results will be reported accurately and objectively.

Conclusion
As stated at the outset, the study reported here will examine in detail the problems encountered by inefficiency of the business process management. Today a lot of organizations face the problem of inefficiency of its resources. As a consequence, current business model is running out of gas. To prevent these things to happen we need to understand how logistic business model works and what problems may occur. The main idea of the proposal was to indicate the most effective tools that can be very useful for company in order to optimize its logistic business processes.
Generally, business process is a group of logically related tasks that perform to achieve a defined business outcome. Moreover, togetherthis set of tasks create value for customers.
Logistic business process is a business process which covers a wide range ofaspects of production, including time, costs and quality.Since there wasn’t any particular information on the particularly this type of business process, the classification and methodology represented above were considered as for conventional.
On the whole, two main approaches wereelaborated: European and Japanese. Each of them has its own strengths and weaknesses. However Japanese methodology presumes more complex analysis. And it was chosen as the most effective one.
A set of tools were represented (such ARIS and DMAIC). Each of them were considered and investigated thoroughly.
In general, the project will have some theoretical implications as well as practical. However, this research will be mostly practical as it will aim to answer certain questions connected with introduction.
Regarding the implications I suppose that this study can lead to the new theoretical developments.Duly subordinated data will be collected and will be used in further research. Moreover, my findings might have some major practical implications.I believe that the approach employed is likely to become fruitful in the long run.