Introduction
Background of the Study. In terms of current economical situation it is essential for the company to survive and to be successful compared to other companies in the industry. Most of the companies do not have lots of free financial resources to invest them in the company’s development, that is why, enhancement by using assets already gathered during the previous years becoming more and more significant. And one of the most powerful tool for such type of development is evaluating and design of business processes of the company. Working with the processes inside the company, it is possible to improve them in such a way, that the efficiency of the whole organization will be double as high without any huge investments.

The Problem Statement. The purpose of this study is to show how crucial it is for the company, to have well regulated business processes.  In present study, on the example of the real organization, significancy of the evaluation and design of business processes will be shown. How serious will be the differences between the key factors of the company at the end of the study. And the process of improving will be shown steadily in order to understand and to show the key moments of improvement. In other words, what stages of the process plays the most vital role in the final result.

Professional Significance of the Study. The research will be of a great significance for small and medium business companies, as they can see the tool that using in the right way, can become a huge competitive advantage for the company in terms of unstable economical and financial situation. Besides, the results of the study can be used as a pattern for small organizations that desire to build the system of business processes from the very beginning, as the study will consider the whole process of design and evaluation of business processes. 
The important aspect, considered in the present study, is the optimization of the already existed business processes. And the wide range of approaches and methods for optimization the processes will be considered in the study. This information can also be used by different companies, to help them develop their business processes system. 

Delimitations of the Study. The study will be limited by the selection of the companies involved. In present study manufacturing and recovering companies will be mostly presented. These delimitations are chosen due to the facts that such companies are likely to have a well-organized system of business processes. But small companies with the poor level of the business processes system will also be viewed in the present research, because it is necessary to show the effect of the optimization on such companies. Besides, the plan is to investigate only that part of the system of business processes connected with warehouse system of the organization.
Definitions of the key terms. Business process – A chain of logically connected repeated actions and as a result of which, the company’s resources are used for the processing of an object in order to reach particular measurable results or production for internal or external consumer satisfaction. 

Literature Review
A large body of literature observing business processes of the company provides a basis for the present study. The process will be observed both from theoretical and empirical approaches in various studies.  The present research is based on the book of Bjorn Andersen “Business process improvement toolbox”. In this book the author gives the most essential characteristics of the business processes, showing the necessity of using them in the organizational structure. Besides, he shows the main principles and methods of evaluation and design of business processes using a rich variety of examples. Based on the works of the best researchers in this field, in his book B. Andersen managed to combine the most obligatory terms, explanations and examples. Another important theoretical work was an article written by V. Repin “How to describe the processes of the branch?”. In this article the author considers the whole path of describing the process of organization from primary investigation to the final regulating of the processes in the organizational unit. Besides, a lot of useful theoretical information was found in the book “Showing the business processes” written by V. Kondratiev and M Kuznetsov. This book provides the present research with additional theoretical information in addition to all the data found in the fundamental book by B. Andersen. Moreover, an article “Business process change: A study of methodologies, techniques and tools” by William J. Kettinger, James T. C. Teng and Subashish Guha provides this research with basic information about methods, techniques and approaches used in the process of business processes redesign, this theoretical research paper describes tools that can be used to accomplish the process of redesign in the most successful way. It is obvious that theoretical study of the problem is crucial, nevertheless the main emphasis of the present study made on the empirical side of the problem. That is why, namely empirical papers play defining role in the present research. The major paper, used as a basis for this work from the empirical side was an article of William J. Kettinger and James T.C. Teng “Business process change and organizational performance: Exploring an antecedent model”. This paper examines a model that proposes various antecedents to successful business process change. Three case studies with varying degree of business process change are described in the context of this model, which is quite useful in terms of present work. The next empirical research used as a basis for the present research is an article “The implementation of business process reengineering” by William J. Kettinger and James T.C. Teng. In the paper the authors identified sixty-four problems for business processes reengineering implementation. Participants from one hundred and five different organizations rated these problems. And the analysis of the results shows the central importance of change management in business process reengineering implementation success. In addition to these articles, a book “Faster cheaper better” by Michael Hammer and Lisa Hershman was of a great help for the present research. This book demonstrates various real life examples of the organizations, implementing business process reengineering approach. The main benefit of this book is presence of negative examples of the companies, trying to implement business process reengineering approach. 

Methodology
At the beginning of the research, mostly theoretical methods will be used. Method of examination and generalization used for theoretical analysis of the information about the issue. This method helps to provide general understanding of the problem and to sort out the best research papers that will fit perfectly the terms of the present research.
On the next step of the research, various empirical methods will be used to understand the practical side of the issue stated. These methods are: observation, interview, questionnaire, measurement and further comparison of the results.
Observation will include the observation of the current situation in the organization, complete examination of all the key processes in the organization and identification of the bottlenecks. Based on the results of the first step of empirical investigation, questionnaire forms will be formulated and suggested to employees for answering to understand their own attitude to the issue that was found out during the observation stage. At the same time, several interviews with key persons of the organization will be carried out in order to understand the attitude of the top management to the problem that we found out during the observation stage. While doing all this, some measurements will be provided to evaluate the efficiency of the current business process model of the company. And at the end of the present research, improved model of business processes of the organization will be measured using the same number of criteria.   After that, the results of both measurements will be compared and analyzed, and based on the results of the analysis the recommendations will be suggested for the company to improve the company’s business process model.

Results Anticipated
Speaking about the future results of the study it should be stated that at the stage of preparing the project proposal there is a number of hypothesis, which most probably are going to be proved. These hypotheses are about the positive influence of business processes optimization on the organizational performance. At the end of the research it would be highly interesting to show how the company, can dramatically increase its performance, without huge investments. Besides, it would be extremely interesting to develop a new pattern for implementation and improvement of the business processes in the organization. All the results would be then presented. All the complicated information would be presented via different tables and diagrams, in order to make it more vivid and easier to understand. All the other results will be reported in narrative text. Moreover, some additional data, such as questioners and interview transcriptions, will be presented in the appendix at the end of the research paper.   

Conclusion
Generally, after observing all the previous research in this area in addition to studying numerous papers of world famous scientists, we can fully consider the issue of evaluation and design of business processes. Firstly in this research, we try to understand the origin of business processes in the company. Then, we have developed the pattern according to which the business process model of the organization would be evaluated. At the same time a number of the most essential set of criteria was selected, and using them we try to evaluate some business processes of a real company. Based on the results obtained, hypothesis will be relatedly accepted or declined.  Finally, in order to structure the results achieved, we have made some conclusions.


