Introduction
Background  
As an independent direction of organic farming started to develop rapidly, since the 1940s in Europe and America, in response to the dependence on synthetic fertilizers and insecticides. During the industrial revolution of the XIX century, with development of agricultural chemistry it was proposed many effective methods of fertilization and pest control. First it was superphosphates and the ammonia-based fertilizers. They were cheap, effective, they were easy to transported During the 20th century new ways of farming are actively used, yield of crops. However, the environmental consequences of the use of these techniques became more and more apparent: heavy metal erosion, salt of reservoirs. In 1940, the British botanist Albert Govard, one of the founders of organic agriculture, proposed a system of fertilization based on the use of compost from plant residues and manure. Naturally, the last but not the cause of organic farming has served all the more aware of the danger to human health. Now living conditions in large cities make people think about how to protect themselves from the negative effects of the urban environment. A health lifestyle from more than 50% consist of health diet. That is why research in this area is becoming increasingly important, and the use of environmentally friendly products is vital.

Problem Statement 
The purpose of this study is to identify the most effective ways to generate business for the production of organic food and assessment of the business from an economic point of view, whether to bring the business products in Perm. 
To address this goal the following objectives were set:
to estimate the purchasing power of the population of the city Perm;
to determine under what conditions will be economically open a production of environmentally friendly products in the city of Perm;
to identify the obstacles to the expansion of the market of organic products in the city of Perm;
to identify the sources of concessional financing.

Delimitations of the study
The study will be limited to a few elements. First of all future research will affect only the analysis of the market of fruits and vegetables. Secondly, the study will be limited territorial scope, namely the territory of the city Perm. And third, the restrictions may be related to the inability to obtain completely full of reliable information about the subject of on going research.
Professional Significance 
Production and consumption of organic have  enormous social and economic significance, which is , on the one hand, the development of production and types of innovation( a production) business, on the other, to achieve positive indicators characterizing the level of quality of life and health of the nation scientific novelty of the results of the study is to determine the price limits the achievement of which allows the entrepreneur to receive economic benefits in the production of environmentally friendly products. In addition to this, will be proposed sources of financing for producers of environmentally friendly products and recommendations for their effective application is to use the combined resources of the state, entrepreneurs, banks    (concessional lending)environmental funds, foreign investors. 
Definitions of key terms
Ecological product – “it is products that are safe for human health, they do not contain GMOs, growth hormones, antibiotics, chemical fertilizers and food additives. ” Ecological Product. (n. d.).
Genetically modified organism (GMO) – “it is an organism whose genotype has been artificially modified item using genetic engineering techniques.(GMOs( or “genetically modified organisms are organisms whose genetic material has been artificially manipulated in a laboratory thought genetic engineering (htt learn more what-is-gmo). ” Ardts, J. (2005).

Literature review
Technology involves the use of organic agricultures only natural remedies and methods of producing, processing and storage of foods. On this basis, organic food is the product obtained as a result of technology organic of agriculture. Organic farming integrated production management system that promotes and enhances the health of agriculture ecosystems. 
Based on existing literature, Gardiner, B.,(2015), we can say that the concept of organic farming dates back to the invention of synthetic agrochemicals. However, as an independent direction of organic agriculture was formed in the early twentieth century. The concept of organic farming was first introduced by a specialist in agriculture, University of Oxford, Lord Northbourne in the published them in the 1940 book “Care about the earth”. In parallel with the Lord Northbourne, the idea of organic agriculture developed by the British botanist Albert Howard. His book “Agricultural Testament” (1940) had an enormous impact on many scientist and farmers. Howard described the negative impact of chemical fertilizers human health, animals and plants, and proposed a system of fertilization, based on crop residues  from compost manure. Influence by the work of Howard, another woman, too theoretical botanist Eve Balfour , Balfour, E.,(2007).,  puts the world’s first scientific experiment is a comparative study of organic and based Apply chemical farming methods on his own farm in the UK. She ran the household in the two mixed  farms, one was a closed  organic system, and the other chemicals used. Balfour, Balfour, E.,(2007), found that while both the organic farm establish stable cycle, during which the nutrient content soil is naturally increased during the grown season, on another farm, where fertilizer used, there are reliance on chemical additives, which she described  as “like a drug addiction”. The organic farms is not only keeps the same high level of soil nutrient as farm fertilizer. But, according to Balfour, vegetables and fruits that grew there were “significantly more that the second farm, and the plants gave healthy 15% more fruit. Report Balfour about her findings published in her book “The Living Soil” in 1943, remains a classic text of motions organic farming, and she was among the Association of Soil Science, established in 1946.
According to russian expert Khotimchenko Sergey, Khotimchenko, S.,(2010). , the Head of laboratory of Food Toxicology Research Institute of Nutrition, the market of organic products in Russia is quite young but rapidly expanding. However, organic food  are not that expanding and not that popular in Russia yet. This is mainly due to the high cost and the lack of a certification system. It is expected that the certification system which will come in 2016, will develop the market of environmentally friendly products in Russia. At present, most organic products in Russia is imported from EU countries such as Germany, France, Italy, and is positioned as a premium or super-premium segment. They are sold in large cities, where a high concentration of wealthy, high- income cities such as Moscow and St. Peterburg, and naturally very a small portion of these products comes to small such industrial cities as Perm. At the present time, Russian  consume, including Perm, have no reliable standards of eco-products  that they can trust when buying food. There are three main obstacles to the expansion of the organic market in Russia, particularly in Perm: high prices for organic products. The absence of a certification system and a lack of knowledge about organic products.  The first obstacle to expand the market of organic products is expanding market for organic products is the price gap between conventional and organic foods. Since more than 90% of organic products in Russia are important from abroad, the cost of these products is much higher his connected not only the organic nature of the products, but also transportation, customs and other taxes. Another obstacle is that the Russians and the Permian including not trust local certification systems. This attitude originates post-perestroika period, when more than half of the ingredients of the product specified on the package does not correspond to reality last obstacle to the development of the market of organic products in Perm is the lack of general knowledge about organic products, both at the government level (no data on existing organic production), so and at the consumer level. 
Khotimchenko S. claim that 30-50% of all diseases are related to violations of Russian power. Studies institute of Nutrition shows that 30-50% of all diseases associated with Russians eating disorders. Major risk factors   decrease in the consumption of fruits and vegetables. Most diseases related to diet: heart disease, cancer, obesity, diabetes-are controlled pathologies. Deaths from these diseases can be reduced through better nutrition. According to Khotimchenko S., to improve the situation of organic agriculture, the development of which is in Russia, and there are all preconditions that must be developed with the traditional. 
“Organic foods are incorporated into the overall structure of a healthy nutrition. Food security in Russia is the production of organic products from farms, farming traditional manufacturing and modern biotechnology.”
“The existing structure of power Krost obesity leads to 23% of the adult population, and 7% in children. This decrease in the adaptive capacity of Children entering adulthood, pulling a health discover”, said Khotimchenko S.

Methods
In this study, several methods of data obtaining and analysis will be used. Firstly, a theoretical analysis will be conducted. It will include the selection and detailed analysis of the foreign ecological farms, their individual characteristics and success factors.
Then to determine the real possibilities of the market of ecological food in the city of Perm and the purchasing power of the population will be conducted survey of potential consumers. As a kind of survey will be used method of questioning. The survey is a written form of a survey, carried out by a specially complied questionnaires. The choice of this method is conditioned by the fact that it is necessary to interrogate the largest possible numbers of inhabitants of  Perm for a certain period of time. The sample of respondents is limited territorial age , will consider the views of respondents aged  18 years living in the city of Perm. 
The questionnaire for potential consumers of environmentally friendly food products will be the following:
1.Do you think that the environmental factor is important in the production of food?
2. When Choosing food products, do you pay attention to their environmental safety?
3. Where do you buy food?(in markets, convenience stores, supermarkets, or a different answer).
4.Do you admit that environmentally friendly and safe products may cost a bit more expensive?
5. How much more would you agree to pay for the guarantee of environmentally friendly products?
6.What is the source of information on environmental purchased goods do you prefer?(special eco-label on the product, advertising campaign, advertising in the media, distributors and Poster  advertising on billboards motorways, trust specially shop of environmentally friendly  products, a different answer).
7. As you would be more convenient to buy more environmentally friendly product? (home delivery, in store with high common prices, but a higher level of service, specialty stores environmentally safe products in the supermarket. In all stores through company stores producers difficult to answer).
8. Your age? (18-25 years, 25-40, 40-60, 60 and older)
9. Your gender? (male, female).
10. Your education? (secondary, vocational secondary, incomplete higher education, high).
11. Your social status? (workers in industry and agriculture workers in the budgetary, the workers organization of commercial structures, the student higher education institution, university, postgraduate, unemployed).
12. Revenues your family ( up to 5000 rubels per month per family number, from 5000 to 7000 rubels  per month per family member, from 7000 to 10000 rubels a month per family members, from 10000 to 15000 rubels per month per family members , over 15000 rubels per month per family member).

Results anticipated
It is expected that this research will help determine the overall attitude of Perm to organic food. It is assumed that for the majority of respondents environmental factor in the production of food is certainly important. As well as than 50% of respondents pay environmental safety. It  is expected that in the first place with the purchase of food products is most important for consumers is the availability of information on the packaging of its composition, manufacturer and expiration date. In second place on the importance of the brand is known and good reputation of the manufacturer of these products. That is, the manufacturer s efforts to improve its reputation are a significant factors in persuading shoppers in the environmental safety of their products. But reasonable price will probably be only in third place. Although the majority of respondents are likely to be understood and to allow that such goods will be more expensive, but for ensuring environmental safety of the majority of respondents agree to pay. It is likely that more than half of the respondents support the initiative of organizing Perm in Perm locally produced organic food, even if the cost is more expensive. 

Conclusion
In the final part, once again briefly to voice the main ideas of the study the main problem issue is the creation and development of ecological food production in the territory of the city of Perm. Basic research will draw conclusions about how to overcome the obstacles to the creation of a business for the production of organic products.
Unfortunately, at the moment in terms of the development of the activities of our country lags far behind most countries in the world, but nevertheless, our country has a significant potential, the implementation of which would allow the creation of effective organic farming. Returning to the socio-economic importance, there is no doubt that the establishment of the city of Perm in this kind of production in items to increase the quality of life of Perm and improve their health. In the add to all the above, the creation of ecological agriculture, which will be supported by the state will be supported by the state will produce activation of the banking sector in lending on favorable terms in such types of business.