Introduction
Background. The entry mode choice is then one of the most critical decisions in international marketing (Herrmann and Datta, 202). Franchising is on of the possible  modes of entry. It can be defined as a licensing agreement between the franchisor and the franchisee, whereby the former grants the permission for the use of his trademarks, ideas, patent of goodwill in lieu of royalty or some other consideration by the franchisee (Vaishnav and Altinay, 2009). Because of the globalized world for many companies, the issue of expansion and development is paramount. So franchising as a strategy in international expansion becomes more and more popular nowadays. Therefore, there is a great need for a deeper study of the difficulties associated with franchising. 

Problem Statement. The aim of this work is to identify the complicated situations that may arise if the company enters a new market, acting as a the franchisor. To do this, is necessary to identify the types of franchising and to define their distinctive features. Further, it is important reveal strong and weak points of the strategy. And finally, consider the difficulties and solutions on the example of a real company.

Professional Significance. Identify problem situations helps managers of organizations to understand what issues should be given special attention. When all risks are identified, particular arrangements can be taken to minimize them.

Definitions of Key Terms. According to Hollensen (2004) and Paliwoda & Thomas (1998), franchising is a marketing-oriented method of selling a business service, which is often to small independent investors with working capital but have limited or no business experience.  Moreover, according to McAuley (2001), franchising has enabled many businessmen and firms to develop large brands around the world. “It is almost like an umbrella term which is used to mean anything from the right to use a name to the total business concept.” (Hollensen, 2004, p. 314; Paliwoda & Thomas, 1998, p. 138). 

Literature Review
Franchising was first appeared in 1863 and changed the way of the world’s business particularly in retailer chains. It is the characteristics of the hospitality industry – large volume of mobility, wide geographic distribution, searching for familiar product, unique travel expectations – which make franchising an appropriate method for expansion. (Pine et al, 2000, p. 30). 
According to Hollensen (2004), there are two types of franchising: Product and trade named franchising which are simply contracts with franchisees to buy or sell franchisor’s product or production line. It is a distribution system very similar to licensing. Coca-cola’s franchising can be seen as a classic example of Franchising. It has independent bottlers around the world, and supplies franchisees with concentrate and specifications to prepare soft drinks. At the same time, it retains control over its trademark, recipe, and advertising, etc (Paliwoda & Thomas, 1998, p. 141).
Another type of franchising is business format package franchising which involves the relationship between the franchisors and franchisees/sub-franchisors not only the products and services. Clive Grant (1985) defines the format of a business franchise as follows:   the granting of license for a predetermined financial return by a franchising company (franchisor) to its franchisees, entitling them to make sure of complete business package, including training, support and the corporate name, thus enabling them to operate their own businesses to exactly the same standards and format as the other units in the franchised chain. (p. 4)   It also applies a global commercial strategy, which includes operations like, marketing programs, staff training, quality controls, standards, ongoing fluid communication and so on. (IFA, 1991; Naisbitt Group, 1989).
The package should involve trade name/trade marks, business know-how, copyright and patents (Jeannet & Hennessey, 2004). It should involve the method of operation such as managerial assistance or training program for new franchisees (Hollensen, 2004; McAuley, 2001). Moreover, Hollensen (2004) stated that within appointed territory, sub-franchisors may establish and serve sub-franchisees by themselves. Under the managerial assistance, all locally owned franchisees, sub-franchisees and sub-franchisors have benefits, such as, supply from franchisor and centrally coordinated advertising. As a business package, in return, the franchisor receives a mark-up according to the franchisee’s annual turnover.
Many authors such as Hollensen (2004), Paliwoda & Thomas (1998) stated the advantages and disadvantages of franchising. The analysis of the advantages and disadvantages will be based on their theory in this thesis.
Franchising has particular benefits which are allowing small independents with investment capital but no industry of management experience to belong to a large organization. Franchising provide a way for business to expand in new market with a level of control, low-risk and low cost. Hollensen (2004) stated that the franchisees are the ones who are investing in the necessary equipment and know-how. Therefore, franchising is a way with high motivation to the franchisees and adapting local market knowledge and experiences. Franchisors can also franchise to a particular area as a pilot test before they entry into the new market.
According to Hollensen (2004, p. 314): “Franchising is especially well suited to service and people-intensive economic activities, particularly where these require a large number of geographically dispersed outlets serving local markets”. Companies by using franchising as the market entry strategy will able to develop new and distant international markets quickly. Therefore, “the original business idea is maximized with the minimum of investment” (McAuley, 2001, p. 95).
From franchisees’ aspect, Paliwoda & Thomas (1998) maintained that franchising provide a flexible business structure, a level of independence. Franchisees will enjoy the benefit of having tried and tested of their business ideas. They will have motivation to run the business because they need to pay an annual fee to franchisors and gain more profit. In addition, franchisees will gain their management knowledge and technology from the franchisors because franchisors will provide the managerial assistance, training program and share the business know-how. Franchisees will also gain their experiences during the franchise period and the process to meet franchisors’ requirements.
Franchising reduces the risk of starting a new business for the franchisee as it receives, a business operational procedure that has been testified already. It also provides the franchisee with an internationally recognized brand and sometimes a world famous reputation.
Professional staff training is also provided by the franchisor. Introduction and application of new technology is provided by experts. Franchisees are benefited with economies of scale by the centralized purchasing system. Franchisees can enlarge its market base through participation of large-sales client loyalty schemes. 
From consumer’s aspect, consumer will benefit from the same level of standard of product with fixed price. From a host country aspect, franchisors will provide more careers in the host countries. This is an important benefit in some developing countries with large population particularly in countries that people who have high education but has problems to find a job. Franchisors will also transfer the knowledge and technology to host countries.
Therefore, franchisor and franchisee play roles of two side of leverage. Franchising bring benefit to both franchisor and franchisee. Franchisor offers a package of operational know-how which including a successful operation system so that franchisee can enjoy the benefit of easier market access, lower scale and share massive advertising campaigns, research and development and problem solving mechanism in the network (Hall and Dixon, 1988). On the other hand, franchisor can expand in new market with limited resources; enjoy early entry into a market and a larger market share and higher revenue from the franchisee; reducing the risk of exploitation on shared base of the franchisees (Pine et al, 2000). Authors such as Pine believed that franchising may be a more rational and fair mechanism for franchisee and franchisor and an effect and favorable method of expansion.
One of the main problems of franchising is the regulation in host countries which including transfers of money, payments of franchise fees and the restrictions on franchise agreement. 
Also, the differentiations of monetary and banking system brought a lot of problems before the reform in financial system and opening market to foreign banks. The bureaucracy of the governments in host countries will be threats for franchising as well (Paliwoda & Thomas, 1998).
Franchisors may face to the operation, communication and quality problems because of the less control of franchisees. According to McAuley (2004), Individual franchisee’s variable quality of service provided to customers may negatively reflect a bad image of poor quality of service to the franchisor’s brand as a whole. Franchisees take the advantages of the brand reputation from franchisors but not share the profit with franchisors. Franchisees will care the profit more than brand reputation which is very important for franchisors. The way franchisees seeking for profit may damage the brand reputation. Therefore, the cost of protecting goodwill and brand name will be increased.
Paliwoda & Thomas (1998) stated that the franchisees may become the future competitor to franchisors because they learn knowledge and technology from franchisors. They may be able to set up a new business which maintains the quality as well as franchisors. Franchisors need to use different packages flexibly. Therefore, the cost of creating an internationally recognized package of products and services will increase. 
Paliwoda & Thomas (1998) consided that franchisee may get burned by paying high franchise fee to franchisor. Some franchisors with weak study on target market might operate new business in new market without planning. Also, when the franchisors lack of local knowledge, franchisees might force to meet the franchise requirements which is not suitable to the local culture. In a franchise contract, franchisees need to pay a sum of money annually and the franchise contract usually last for a few years. Therefore, franchisees will not be able to keep or reap profit even they work on it. In addition, franchisees will lack of independence in decision making because  franchisors still control the R&D and marketing functions.
In fact, it was only in the middle of 1960s that a few fast food chains began experimenting with foreign operations. McDonald’s made its first major international push in 1970. Yet by 1992, McDonald’s was generating fully 39 percent of its $21.9 billion in worldwide system sales from its international operations. What is worth noting is that McDonald’s was successful in its international operations employing the same formula as it had perfected in its domestic operations, even though the “culture” was quite different. Fast food, drive-ins, and self-service restaurants were a uniquely American phenomenon. McDonald’s had to export practices (and eating habits) that were endemic to the American middle class but virtually unknown throughout the world. Indeed, “whenever McDonald’s International departed from its tried-and-true franchising methods, it stumbled” (Love, 1995, p. 416). 
However, several well-known counterexamples are also worth noting. The McDonald’s corporation has been the object of intense scrutiny of its international franchise operations (Love, 1995). McDonald’s opened its first retail outlet in Iceland, but had to build an underground parking lot to attract customers who would not venture out into the extreme temperatures. McDonald’s soon learned just how difficult it was for Japanese to pronounce McDonald’s. The local franchisee, Den Fujita, made the pronunciation simple by transforming the name into Makudonaldo! For the same reason, Ronald McDonald became Donald McDonald in Japan. (Love, 1995)
There was also a controversy regarding the site location for the McDonald’s in Krakow, Poland, and the architectural and historical considerations present in placing a restaurant in a five hundred year old building near one of the oldest medieval market squares in all of Europe. The widely publicized experiences of McDonald’s and countless other franchisors, remind us that flexibility and adaptability must be the watchwords in international franchising.

Methods
The method of analysis of secondary data is most convenient to reach the goal. It helps to consolidate existing information, correlate and compare the results of relevant studies and observation. This method helps to unify research data collected over a long period of time. Franchising, as a strategy of entry, is in constant development and improvement, it is therefore necessary to learn it, relying on a large information base.

Results Anticipated
As a result of this study, we obtained data on the positive and negative features of such a strategy of entering a new market as a franchise. Knowing the strengths of this strategy, executives can understand what actions are necessary for more productive activities. For example, if sales organization, which is the franchisor, need to increase sales, the best solution would be a large-scale advertising campaign. The increase in sales will occur not only in the Central office, but each franchisee. Each franchisee pays a portion of the income of the parent company, so the franchiser will get more income.
As for the negative traits of franchising, it should be noted that it is the weaknesses of the strategy. High risks for the organization are linked with them. To minimize the risks it is necessary to pay special attention to these traits. For example, the new culture of the region and its specific features should be carefully studied to adapt the product. An example of McDonald's has shown that neglecting this study can significantly affect profitability and create a wrong image of the organization in the opinion of the consumer.

Conclusion
Taking everything into consideration, the goal of the study was achieved. The difficulties that could face the franchisor have been identified. It was considered types of franchise, its positive and negative features. Moreover, the example of McDonald's, we saw how the company overcomes these difficulties.
The identified weaknesses of the strategy will help managers to focus on areas that require special attention, such as the protection of their intellectual property (trademark, brand name), an adaptation of goods to the national characteristics of consumers, the relationship between the franchisor and the franchisee.