Introduction
Background. It is important to understand the need for properly organizing any mass event. There is no difference what event it would be: sports, exhibition, festival or business meeting - one of the main criteria of successful event is qualitative service of its participants and guests. Even the process of waiting for clothing in the wardrobe can leave an unpleasant impression on the whole event. Management of modest-scale event also requires considerable effort and expense, both intellectual and material. It is need to be clear about the ultimate goals, objectives, and desired public response for effective preparation.
Logistics can be useful in events organizational sphere. According to Collins dictionary the word “Logistics” have three different definitions:
the science of the movement, supplying, and maintenance of military forces in the field
the management of materials flow through an organization, from raw materials through to finished goods
the detailed planning and organization of any large complex operation
These meanings of logistics will be used variously in this paper because of fact that logistics associates with numerous processes as within as outside of event. These processes might be organizing of catering, negotiations with suppliers of goods, services and materials, also agreement with rescue services about the admissibility of the place to the event.

Problem Statement. There are three limitations which might prevent the event:
money (problem to get sponsorship)
time (weeks or months needed for event preparation)
human  recourses (how many people in organizational team)
Project approach will help to solve these problems with limitations. 

Literature Review
For event industry players, this particular item is tantamount to the success of organizing any event. Meanwhile, according to Mitchell and Samms (2010) description of time management, individuals first determine their needs and wants and then rank them in terms of importance. Specific activities include setting goals to achieve the needs or wants and prioritizing the tasks necessary to accomplish them. In the aspect of event management, time is viewed as the planning process since the initiation stage of the event until the implementation of the program. Thus, the sequence of actions must be followed through rigorously to achieve the end target of organizing a successful event. Faulkner et al (2007) highlighted, because few, studies have addressed this specific issue, examination of the linkage between perceived control over time and job satisfaction is warranted. It was expected that those who felt in control of their time would be most satisfied with their job. Little research has been conducted on the relationship between job performance and time management. This is the reason why this study is conducted to prove that there is a significant relationship between excellent performances with proper time management. Time management may be aided by a range of skills, tools, and techniques used to manage time when accomplishing specific tasks, projects and goals complying with a due date.
In event management, the tasks are divided among the crew members as would any job division within an organization. Job performance involves something that people do and can be reflected on what the action that individual takes (Oswald et al, 2010). However, Faulkner et al. (2007) as cited by Watson and Strayer (2010) identify that performance does not include the result of those particular actions. Usually, results are often mistaken to be easily quantified and tracked to measure job performance due to their ability. The results are not what the actions that individuals takes but the result are influenced by individual efforts. Smith and Segal (2012) discovered the results are often affected by factors beyond the individual control. Event management focuses on individual job performances due to the nature of events which are usually short term. Most event organizers sub-contract functional divisions while putting one main supervisor or person-in-charge of each task to oversee that particular function. Therefore, individual performance is basically dependent upon others that do the groundwork to ensure the smooth flow of the event. That person is entrusted to ensure the success of his/her function which in the end will contribute to the overall success of a particular event.


Methodology
This qualitative study will interview participants and stakeholders of events in Russia, namely in Perm from December of 2015 till end of March 2016. The methodology will follow Grounded Theory by Glaser & Strauss (1967) and had open-ended questions with in-depth probing, to obtain the perception of the participants of the various events. As with any qualitative study it focuses on the perception of the individuals. The paper does not quote individuals or identifies individuals to protect their identity. The findings also do not include magnitudes of any kind when it comes to quantities, as the numbers cannot be quoted. The study looks at the phenomenon at hand and the general solutions to the special event logistics problems. The qualitative study followed the time line of the event and will created while the event will still ongoing, with changing dynamics and the final outcomes of the event were uncertain. This is a snap shot in time looking at the logistics efforts of the event and not on the political aspects of the event, strictly a technical study for lessons learned and establishing industry best practices when it comes to geopolitical events, event management and special event logistics and supply chain management (SCM) and logistics in general under the special context.

Results Anticipated
The results of this study will be summarized in the following topic areas
Food and Beverage (F&B): Food and beverages are of vital importance role for special events especially if they take place over several days, weeks or months. The people have to be fed and food plays a particularly important role in Russian culture (Пашоликов, 2013). One has to say nobody has been starving at these events. There has been plenty of food for every taste; there has been a northern kitchen for those who like more spicy northern food, southern kitchen for those from the south and special food. To cook for large crowds is a special challenge, and has been handled through several kitchens rather than through one large centralized kitchen. Tons of vegetables, rice and meat especially chicken, were donated or provided at discounted prices. Cooking for those masses also takes on a particular task and requires a large amount of people. Not only the cooking is an issue but also the dish washing of the cooking utensils and some of the dishes. Even so most of the food was served in Styrofoam and paper which was folded into food containers by volunteers. There was a large variety of homemade dishes which will be provided by volunteer donors, down to specialty dishes and desserts and ice cream and Thai style cold and hot drinks including three-in one Nescafe and fresh brewed espresso and mocha. Food and snacks were available 24/7. There also was sufficient bottled drinking water available and optional ice cubes for those who liked it cold.
Transportation: There is a large requirement for transportation which will more or less centrally coordinated. Some of the transportation needs are provided as part of the services of the vendor, donor or provider under the Inco terms. These may include the transportation of the various articles by the vendors such as merchandise that is for sale by independent vendors. While other items such as vegetables and various food supplies need pick-up to be arranged by the organizers to get the items from the donors to the site. Another huge transportation issue is that of people movement from one venue to another. There are shuttle services available via so called song taoe – pickup trucks with seating arrangements in the rear. There are also regular buses used not only for local transport. There also needs to be coordination of air transportation for VIPs who come in by various means of air transport who need to be picked up from the various airport and be escorted to the site or their accommodations. As part of the warm-up marches and rally there is movement of an assortment of vehicles, private cars, to buses and large trucks. This requires a transportation management system and also the refueling of the vehicles is a challenge as any single gas station would not be able to handle the entire fleet. Fleet management becomes an important component of the logistics puzzle. Public transportation to and from Perm and to the sites played an important role. The sites were more difficult to reach by car and major intersections were blocked through the sites and even detours ended up in traffic jams. Parking at the sites usually took place in terms of road side parking with parts of the road being closed for parking or the use of near-by commercial parking structures.

Conclusion
Finally, geopolitical events as "Bangkok off 2014" have special transportation requirements that go beyond the usual deliveries (SCM). There is nothing regular about these events and demand forecasting is hard to do in the first days of the event. Several places, of course, more difficult than one big event, where the economy of scale kicked in and outweighed by a larger number of participants. Some sites need exponentially more staff for management and operation activities. Concerts in a way to have a lot in common with Outdoor geopolitical events, the key word is open (Tum, Norton & Wright, 2006).