Introduction
Background. Last few years have seen the recovery of road system and significant growth in financing of road construction. This sphere has always been particularly interesting for federal municipal customers alike. Until now procedure of government spending was defined by Federal Law №94-FL “On contract placement for commodities and services for federal and municipal needs” (SPS Consultant, 2005). According to it, the only possible procedure for contract placement for road construction is electronic auction, which is mainly the Russian innovation –such procedure is used nowhere else in the world.
Basically all of municipal purchases in road construction are worth less than 500 million Russian rubles, and 91 per cent of overall regional development projects is less than 500 million rubles. Many specialists believe no electronic auction in this sphere should take place at all, because contractors’ background check cannot be performed, and it is not practiced throughout the world. ISO 10845-1 “Purchases in construction sphere” does not suggest electronic auction as a method of purchase making in road construction (ISO, 2015).

Problem Statement. The fact that such procedure does not allow evaluating contractors by the means of quality or contract completion time is also worth mentioning. Supposedly, when quality plays the starring role, this approach should not be allowed. 
The main goal of this study is to systematically analyze Perm Krai’s e-auctions and find a way to improve the procedure of governmental spending. In order to reach that goal, we should perform several tasks, such as:
Review legal aspects of regulation of governmental spendings in road construction in Russian Federation;
Define regulatory problems of governmental purchases in road construction;
Conduct an analysis of electronic auction in Perm Krai;
Describe the methodology for the improvement in contractual system.

Professional significance. Road construction is a very specific sphere, where security and quality of services play a big part.  On this stage introduction of e-auctions in this sphere leaves issues of technical ability of contractors unnoticed, which threatens both safety and quality of the works conducted. Reason for all of this is simple – the only criterion for electronic auction is the price of a contract. 
Project management is the special type of management for reaching the project’s goal. Its main difference from electronic auction is running the given process as a system and not only concentrating on minimizing the deviations of numerical factors from planned. 

Literature Review
The basis for the present study is provided by a large body of laws and provisions. The theoretical review starts off with the explanation of key terms related to the electronic auctions.
First of all, electronic auctions are procurement auction performed online. The most common type of online auction is a reverse auction. Reverse auction is generally understood as a type of auction in which several sellers offer their items for bidding, and compete for the price, which a buyer will accept. (Business Dictionary, 2015). Secondly, in the right circumstances, it’s a very effective procurement tool for both buyer and supplier: the buyer benefits from significant price reduction; the supplier benefits because an e-auction is, effectively, a very open and transparent competition where she /he can bid against the other companies (Taylor, 2000).
Since 2010 there were made 27 amendments to Federal Law 94-FL, and in January 2014 it was replaced by Federal Law №44 “On contractual system”; also the Federal Law 223 “On purchases of goods and services by certain types of entities” was introduced in 2012, in fourth paragraph  “Principles and general statements on purchase of goods and services” of which the Government of Russian Federation had stated the list of goods and services to buy using electronic auction system.
Moreover, suggested alternative contractual system assumes moving from irrelevant mechanism to regulating the full cycle of government purchases and shall replace existing 94-FL.
Besides Federal Laws there is also a Ruling of Government of Russian Federation which as well states order of governmental purchases.
According to Russian law, federal customers have to use electronic auction procedure when placing orders for road construction regardless of the price. Exceptions from this rule are services of construction, reconstruction, refurbishment of highly dangerous and/or technically complex buildings or artificial roads, included in lists of roads of federal, regional or intramunicipal local importance, and also such services of starting price for federal contracts higher than 150 million rubles or, for municipal contracts, higher than 50 million rubles. Moreover, regional and municipal customers gain the duty to place orders on goods or services from aforementioned Ruling, and for construction or reconstruction of roads (excluding exceptions above) using electronic auction. 
Federal Law 44-FL names four federal auction sites which passed audit by Federal Antimonopoly Service of Russian Federation. They are called “electronic marketplace”. Experts in the field define e-marketplace as a location on the Internet where companies can obtain or disseminate information, engage in transactions, or work together in some way. Most of the e-marketplaces provide two basic functions: 
1) they allow companies to obtain new suppliers or buyers for company products
2) developing streamlined trading networks that make negotiating, settlement, and delivery more efficient.
Sberbank-AST (electronic auction site of Sberbank) 
ETS “MICS”  
RTS-tender 
GUE “Republic of Tatarstan Governmental Spending, investments and Interregional Communication Agency” 
Nevertheless, review of academic journals shows us that even though the aforementioned ISO 10845-1 “Purchases in construction sphere” (ISO, 2015) does not suggest electronic auction as a method of purchase making in road construction, it is sometimes used, even in the developed countries. Jennifer McAllister and Will Mcclave in their paper “Internet Bidding at the Ohio Department of Transportation”(2009) describe process of electronic auction use in street and highway construction in the state of Ohio since 1992. Researches oversee software packages to be used, such as Expedite by The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials and The Bid Express by Info Tech Inc. and its several add-ons and extensions. They name several influences of adopting the internet bidding system: reduction of paperwork and overall time and/or material costs for both contractors and state officials; environmental friendliness of given system; increased overall efficiency. Authors conclude that, in the end, use of electronic auction benefits for all of the citizens of Ohio (McAllister, J, McClave, W, 2009).
On the other hand, Atsushi Iimi of Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) Institute and The World Bank in Washington, DC, shines a light on road construction auctions matter by committing an econometrical analysis of 83 auctions that took place in China during the late 1990s. He seeks for ways of improving competition of auctions by conducting quantative study, which takes length of the road, size of the winning bid, number of bidders and the loan amount into account. This research finds that effect of competition increases with the number of bidders and/or length of the road, which practically means that the longer the road and the higher the number of bidders, the lower the winning bid at the auction is (Atsushi, I, 2007). 
As the result of the review of regulatory and scientifical literature above, I suggest project management system as an alternative to electronic auctions. It helps to reach defined result in acceptable terms and amounts of financial and material resources, and also makes resource distribution more efficient by stimulating project initiators to adjust the project itself to international standards.  
The theoretical background that presented above provides basic information about electronic auctions and the terms connected with it. Hence, understanding of the problem discussed in the research literature may help in conducting further investigations.

Methods
This section explains the methods and procedures used in carrying out the study. Chosen method of the research – case study. Case study method is not just a methodological novation, but it is a timely response to the reality of modern education. We daresay that such method is aimed at development of intellectual and communicative potential of the student and professor more than receiving particular knowledge. One of the definitions of case study is that it is “documented study of a specific real-life situation or imagined scenario, used as a training tool in business schools and firms”. (Business Dictionary, 2015). It is relevant for my bachelor dissertation as I am analyzing so-called “Complaints” which are used for detecting procedural flaws of auctions; current case creates practical model of the situation as we aim to oversee such “Complaints” and examine them step by step. Pros of using this method are:
Practical direction;
Ability to adapt the situation to real organizational situation;
Activity of participants in a relatively serene situation;
Opportunity for creation of a friendly and highly motivating working environment which allows its participants to be creative and inspired and show their expertise;
Opportunity to receive positive feedback from participants and moderator;
Ensuring participants in their ability to deal with similar situations when faced with in real world or reveal their disadvantages;
Opportunity for making and analyzing mistakes and to learn from them.

Results anticipated
The main result of the research would be recommendations (basically a whole new approach to electronic auction procedure). As an alternative, the project management systems should be applied. It helps to reach defined result in acceptable terms and amounts of financial and material resources, and it also makes resource distribution more efficient by stimulating project initiators to adjust the project itself to international standards. During the study we shall analyze foreign pricing policies of road construction, which will eventually get us to revealing strict rules of pricing of said sphere. That would help us to implement a system of market pricing, which is essential for adequate evaluation of highway and street building costs. Moreover, move from pricing for detailed building operations to pricing for particular road elements seems appropriate and necessary. When analyzing “Complaints’ we will develop solutions for main problems of road construction – enhancement of funding system and land and/or government spending legislation and introducing market pricing system. All measures mentioned above will allow the qualitative progress for the road infrastructure of our country. 

Conclusion
It follows from what has been discussed, that use of electronic auctions road construction is a highly controversial theme, because current legislation hardly corresponds with existing norms of business. It allows indecent contractors, dumping cartel schemes and many more things. Quality problem is another big issue. To start with, it gives, as mentioned above, a possibility for opportunistic behavior of contractor, who in pursuit of profit may consciously use low-quality materials and not fulfill required quality of works. On the other hand, governmental and municipal customers are sometimes unable to formalize the functional requirements for desired commodity or service placed on the auction. In that case responsibility lays only on such customer, or, more exactly, on its employees who did not perform the task of formalization brilliantly.
Summing all of the above up, we want to note that electronic auctions in road construction are good for business and not that hard to be done properly. But this practice requires well-trained staff to perform. We may say that, unfortunately, now e-auction system has a lot of faults, most widespread of which, as we examined, is disturbed order of description. We see an open contest with limited participation as the best way for distribution of governmental purchases, because it allows pre-qualification of orders. This pre-qualification oblige governmental or municipal customers to grow the number of requirements, as stated in Ruling of Russian Federation Government № 1089. Open contest with limited participation makes decision of the winner by the lowest price of all qualified bids.