Introduction
Introduction: the Background of the Study. An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of HR brand signify the growing role of brand employer for company. The company's staff is one of the most valuable resources. Companies focused on progress think about getting, developing and retaining talented employees. The main goal of the executive is to provide all conditions for the employees for their efficient work. The researchers emphasize that financial reward is not able to retain staff for a long time. The company will be able to retain a valuable employee if it can create the condition, where the employee will receive moral satisfaction from work. In addition, the organization needs to build a system, which allows to create the image of a company as a reliable employer.

Introduction: the Problem Statement and Scope of the Study. The process of personnel loyalty management is a very complex, creative and interesting. There are many factors that influence the loyalty such as financial incentives, the atmosphere in the team, management style of the head, the ability to self-realization and others. I am going to consider only one factor: HR-brand. The study of correlation these two objects seems more interesting, because it is more relevant issue for many enterprises, who has a strong brand in the consumer market, but cannot establish internal marketing and, as a result, losing “the war for talent”. 
The following three hypotheses were identified:
1. HR-brand increases personnel loyalty of the company;
2. HR-brand promotes effective activity of the company's staff;
3. HR-brand affects the firm's image as employer in the labor market. 
The planned development of the employer brand helps to attract and retain qualified professionals, to reduce the cost of recruitment and, ultimately, to increase the involvement of employees in business processes and efficiency of their work.
The study of correlation of HR-branding and personnel loyalty management involves a necessity to establish next aims:
1. to study of literature of internal marketing;
2. to consider different approaches to HR brand;
3. to identify the main instruments of creating an employer brand;
4. to understand the essence of the concept of  personnel loyalty.
4. to assess the impact HR-brand on personnel loyalty.

Introduction: the Professional Significance of the Study. Many studies confirm the fact that the company's staff is an effective resource for the business growth of the company. The head of the company should know that building a strong employer brand is necessary to strengthen the competitive position in the market. Also he should understand that the monetary resources spent on building an HR brand is not a cost but an investment.  Thus, this paper will be useful not only for HR-specialists and business leaders, but also for students studying at the faculty of management and for a wide range of readers interested in modern trends in the field of HR-brand.

Introduction: Delimitations of the Study. In this work I will analyze the staff of only one company. Thus, the aggregate sample will not be representative enough, however, the data obtained allow to see the main regularities.

Literature Review
HR-branding is an area of management, which combines marketing and human resources. The first attempt to give a definition of HR-brand were taken by Simon Barrow, chairman of paper “People in Business” and Tim Ambler, senior researcher of London Business School in 1996. According to their interpretation, employer brand is “the package of functional, economic and psychological benefits provided by employment and identified with the employing company … the main role of the employer brand is to provide a coherent framework for management to simplify and focus priorities, increase productivity and improve recruitment, retention and commitment” (Ambler, Barrow,1996). From the definition it is clear that the authors focused on social benefits for employees and providing them comfortable working conditions. Today there are many interpretations of the definition of HR-brand.
Dr. John Sullivan, famous HR-specialist from the Silicon Valley wrote “employment branding is a targeted, long-term strategy to manage the awareness and perceptions of employees, potential employees, and related stakeholders with regards to a particular firm. The strategy can be tuned to drive recruitment, retention, and productivity management efforts” (Sullivan,2004). In this definition, the author considers the HR-brand as a long-term strategy of the company, which is necessary for the recruitment and retention of personnel as internal loyal customers. 
Next authoritative definition was developed by Libby Sartain and Mark Schumann, authors of “Brand From the Inside”. HR-brand is “how a business builds and packages its identity, from its origins and values, what it promises to deliver to emotionally  connect employees so that they in turn deliver what a business promises to customers”. They were the first who used in the definition the phrase "emotional connection". This is a very important part of the definition, because it is responsible for creating employee commitment to the company. The stronger the emotional attachment, the greater the likelihood that the employee will appreciate the employer and stay in the company. 
All these definitions have in common is that they consider HR-brand as a tool for increasing personnel loyalty. HR-brand promotes the formation of values for employees. The model offered by Backhaus and Tikoo reflects the system of relationship between the employer brand and its goals.
According to Figure 1, employer branding creates two principal assets – brand associations and brand loyalty. Employer brand associations shape the employer image that in turn affects the attractiveness of the organization to potential employees. Employer branding impacts organization culture and organization identity that in turn contribute to employer brand loyalty (Backhaus and Tikoo, 2004).
In the article “Conceptualizing and researching employer branding” Backhaus and Tikoo describes the process of creation HR-brand. The first step is the creation of value for the employee of the company, its value propositions. In other words, this is the reasons why an employee chooses this job and ready to work effectively.
External marketing of the employer brand is the second step that is needed to attract potential employees, which may become loyal employees in the future. This is a very important element because the productivity and financial results of the company depends on the quality and the number of people hired. It is customary to divide online and offline methods of recruitment. To close positions that do not require unique knowledge and skills, using specialized websites to search for job seekers. Candidate, applying for high positions, must be more carefully selected by HR-manager or a head of a company. In addition, the company can promote itself at various job fairs. This is an effective method of communication with students as prospective employees in the future (Backhaus and Tikoo, 2004).
Last but not the least important element in the HR system-a brand is internal marketing. There are several approaches to internal marketing. Initially, the company internal marketing policy has been introduced to improve the quality of goods and services and reduce costs for production. This approach was described by Leonard L. Berry. He defined internal marketing as “viewing employees as internal customers, viewing jobs as internal products that satisfy the needs and wants of these internal customers while addressing the objectives of the organization” (Berry, 1976). Therefore, internal customers involves persons included in working process. The basic idea of internal marketing is that employees of the organization are the customers. Today, internal marketing is becoming one of the most popular destinations in the area of quality management. Executives use the concept of internal marketing, because they understand that in the conditions of fierce competition, professionals may leave the company at any time. That is why he strives to offer the employee a position with better conditions than the competitor. 
It is important to mention about the psychological contract between employer and employee. In the traditional understanding of the psychological contract between workers and employers, workers retain the loyalty of the company in exchange for the stability of their employment (workplace safety) (Hendry and Jenkins, 1997)  or guarantee of professional growth. It should be noted that the psychological contract has not lost its relevance today because for many people, especially young professionals, career growth, financial position of the company and its image in the labour market is  very important factor for selection of future work. The company, using your HR brand, positioning itself as a socially responsible company, as well as attracting potential talents with opportunities for career and personal growth. The main objective of internal marketing as an important element of the HR brand is not only to improve the quality of goods and services, but also increase staff loyalty. 
The concept of "loyalty" has changed. Lawrence determined the "loyalty" between employees and the company as devotion of workers to their organizations as reflected in their compliance with instructions from supervisors (Lawrence, 1985). Buchanan  determined loyalty as an employee’s feelings of attachment to an organization (Buchanan, 1974 ). The most advanced and modern version of the description belongs to Elegido, who define employee loyalty as “a deliberate commitment to further the best interests of one’s employer, even when doing so may demand sacrificing some aspect of one’s self-interest beyond what would be required by one’s legal and other moral duties” (Elegido, 2013, p. 496).  It can be seen that there are variety definition of “loyalty”, but the key feature of these definition is the emotional attachment to the company and the commitment of the employee to the chief and the  personnel team.
Ruslan E. Mansurov, candidate of Economic Science, author of over 100 papers in leading national and international journals, was one of the first Russian HR-specialist who have combined foreign study and contributed  to the development of the employer brand. His research focuses on the benefits of the HR- brand.  It may seem that the labor market is oversaturated with applicants, but there is always a shortage of qualified and  personnel who are able to solve complex problems in a non-standard conditions. Companies that appreciate and care about employees, are more likely to attract effective employees. He also noted that loyal employees become "advocates" of the company. Accordingly, the company receives benefits such as reduced employee turnover, economic sustainability of the firm, higher productivity, greater number of highly qualified candidates who have come on the recommendation, finally, the positive atmosphere in the company.

Methodology
This part of the research proposal describes methods that allow to check the hypothesis and make an informed decision on investigated question. 
First of all, I am going to study and analyze the literature on HR- brand, internal marketing and personnel loyalty. This method is necessary in order to assess which aspects of the investigated issue is well researched. Then I can rely on theoretical material for writing the empirical part of the study. 
Also I should like to try to measure the loyalty of employees and their job satisfaction by the technique, described Mansurov in his paper. Such technique requires the using of questionnaires. This questionnaire is anonymous to achieve the frankness of the respondents. The respondents are the employees of the investigated company: workers, employees, specialists, heads of structural divisions and others. They have to rank the indicators of job satisfaction in the company such as the reliability of the company, satisfaction of salary level, career growth prospects, satisfaction of working conditions and so on. All answers of the respondents qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed. 
Interview with the director or manager of the company is a very important part of the study. Interview with the head of the organization helps to understand the reason for the creation of HR-brand of the company and the process of its creation; to estimate the relationships between head of organization and subordinate, to evaluate the economic efficiency of HR-brand and many other issues. This will provide a broader understanding of the business processes of the company, to know the motivation of the leader and his personal assessment of the effectiveness of HR-brand.
These methods are flawed, but necessary for testing the hypothesis and to answering the main question of investigation. 

Results anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the future results. It can be suggested that all hypotheses will be proved. The facts, obtained from studies, give grounds to suggest that employer brand gives a certain set of economic, professional and psychological benefits received by the employee, joining the company. For this reason the employee becomes loyal to the company and interested in its development. HR-brand increases the motivation and loyalty of employees because they understand and share the company's values. What is more, it might be expected that company which has strong and well-known HR-brand are more popular among applicants in the labour market.  

Conclusion
In conclusion I would like to highlight the main ideas of the research proposal. Today many companies compete for young talented professionals and retain valuable employees. For this reason, executives invest money in the creation of unique, reliable and strong HR-brand. The funds invested in the creation and development of the employer brand, are considered not as costs but as investments. Loyal workforce which is the result of a quality HR brand, shows better performance, enthusiasm in the working process, creative approach to problem solving. In addition, the company reduces the cost for recruitment of staff, because employee turnover decreases. 