Introduction
Background. There is currently undeniable interest in lean management. In today’s economy this idea is of substantial practical significance for a number of organizations. They attempt to incorporate lean philosophy to develop their production, operations, suppliers and customer relations while reducing space, time, capital, material, and human efforts.
Although scholars hold quite various views about the nature of the phenomenon they have been able to build a sufficient theoretical basis for its further investigation and implementation. Now it is a matter of how organizations choose to undergo these changes and what influences their success. 
Despite the fact that this practice is quite popular in Russia, there are few Perm enterprises applying lean principles. Present investigation may reveal some particularities and possible difficulties of implementing lean in Perm manufactures. In future acquired information can be useful for other regional organizations.

Problem statement. For practical reasons the present study will frame the notion of lean management so as to provide sufficient explanation for the observed concept. This information will serve as a relevant background for the further analysis.  Then I will examine in some depth the factors of successful lean application. 
The ultimate purpose of this project will be to attempt to reveal the principles of lean production and show a certain guide on how to efficiently implement them and what lean tools to use in a particular Perm manufacturing company.

Delimitations of the study. Although the present study will cover some theoretical aspects it is not within its scope to touch upon the issues concerning peculiar features of the lean management. I do not set myself the aim to define all the key terms, list all the principles or describe all the existent lean tools and spell out how they are used. For practical reasons the focus of the research will be narrowed to the production process of only one product of a particular company. It means that the findings will certainly be valid and applicable only for this Perm organization.

Professional significance. In general this paper will be helpful for those who want to deepen their knowledge of lean management as it combines different theoretical views on the problem. However, the inquiry will be of a paramount interest to the operation and top management of the chosen enterprise. Operational managers may use not only the results of the study but also its methodology to further develop the performance of their department and company as a whole. They may find new approaches and techniques to solve the existent or potential issues. Top management also will be concerned with the production improvement and therefore overall resource savings which may be achieved by lean implementation.     

Literature Review
In the present literature review I will examine theoretical studies in the field of lean management. A considerable amount of valuable work has been done not only to provide a solid grounding for the research into principles of lean production but also to deepen and push forward the understanding of the phenomenon. Although the origins of lean couched a great deal of debate among scientists it is generally agreed that the doctrine “The Machine That Changed the World” (Womack et al., 1990) serves as the firm foundation for further investigations in the problem area. Authors of this paper advanced core notions and principles of lean management, which were accepted as the governing ideas in the analysis of a wide range of issues by several generations of successors. Moreover the concept introduced by Womack et al. (1990) has found wide application as it had immediate practical implications. 
Originally lean production was regarded as a generic representation of Toyota Production System (TPS), a systematic approach to organization of production processes that demands the elimination of all types of waste to ensure that customer receives the offered value swiftly and smoothly (Ohno, 1988). However over time the theory of lean has been critically reviewed and modified. Later on a number of theorists established it as application of particular managerial tools through using best practice and process improvement methodologies. Subsequently some scholars revised the existent theories and started to account lean production for a process improvement methodology practically used in organizations. And finally professionals discussed the subject as an ideological movement (Williams, 2015). I will base my study on the more contemporary description that has been agreed on by many researchers. It addresses lean as a fully incorporated management and manufacturing philosophy which aims at reducing the time spent on non-value adding tasks to meet customer needs as precisely as possible (Shannon et al., 2010). The theory of Womack et al. (1990) also suggests a set of lean production principles which include teamwork, communication, efficient use of resources and continuous improvement. These are substantial for further analysis. Many scholars note that human element appears to be one of the most significant success factors. That allows enterprises to use lean management more universally, outside of manufacturing settings (Womack et al. 1990). 
Sustainable and successful implementation of lean production is generally affected by strategic, structural and cultural organizational factors. In the majority of literature these factors are presented in a specific sequence of actions that company should consider taking in order to incorporate lean. 
First of all a company should mobilize for lean change. It means that a strategic approach should be taken and supported by strong top management leadership and carefully selected Kaizen events. Theorists state that the role of leaders and supervisors in the lean enterprise is to motivate, coach, train and facilitate the work of those adding value rather than to tell them what to do. Employees are kept enthused by continuously being allowed to change their processes (Vasilash, 2000) and to personalize these changes if possible. Such measures make the company less hierarchical and more flexible (Ahrens, 2006). However the nature of leadership in lean manufacture has been hotly debated time and again by the renowned scientists. Some believe that top management of the manufacture should motivate and engage employees by example, coaching, helping them to achieve their goals. Others argue that leaders should create a crisis within the organization to force it to adopt lean changes through the power of will (Womack and Jones, 2003). Moreover, mobilization requires the emphasis to be made on the value creation. It means that the organizational culture should be centered on production while management serves as its strong support. Therefore scientists characterize a lean culture by emphasis on people first, trust, strong customer orientation and the joint shop floor (Ahrens, 2006).
Secondly, company’s strategy should be translated into objectives and lean initiatives. A number of authors states that it starts with determining the nature of change. Generally they distinguish between two sources of commitment to improvement programs: managerial push and employee pull. Push ranges from mandatory participation in training and Kaizen events to financial incentives (Womack, Jones, 2003). On the other hand, pull arises when employees fully understand the benefits of lean and improvement potential for themselves independent from management’s support. However, there is a difficulty in leading initial stimulation: a strong top down approach may feel employees being forced to change whereas a bottom up, organically grown approach may not lead to the expected results. After choosing the appropriate strategy the enterprise should select the tools of lean management which will correspond with the certain production engineering. Accordingly, to measure further performance and effectiveness of applied techniques the organization needs to develop adequate metrics with regard to its objectives.
Thirdly the company should design the lean change process by setting a Kaizen agenda. This step is closely related to the previous one, because it includes implementation of the lean tools such as VSM, 5S, flow production, Kanban. There is a vast amount of literature describing each tool but I will overlook it as it goes beyond my research. 
Fourthly, top management should align the enterprise with the lean changes. Womack and Jones (2003) suggest reorganization of the company by rethinking the functional departments as a way to achieve the alignment. Besides, engineering processes and functions should be integrated to ensure efficient development and manufacture of the product with elimination of any defects. Researchers also mention the importance of highly skilled personnel that could independently solve arising problems with the product quality. In addition they highlight the necessity of HR integration which can support the cultural change aspects of the lean transformation. Many professionals in the field of lean management claim that it is a critical HR task to develop systems where personnel are flexibly allocated and are paid for high productivity. Rothwell (1994) says companies may even be forced to handle redundancies as lean requires fewer input resources and production will not always require the entire workforce. Furthermore the enterprise should integrate sales and marketing to produce a good forecast in order for production to calculate Takt time. It is needed to reduce the reaction time to changing customer demands and sell the lean advantages of the company (Henderson, Larco, 2000). Accordingly the purchasing department should be integrated to develop a value chain of suppliers with application of lean tools. In literature there is also a lot of debate over reward and incentive system within the lean enterprise. Paper (1999) says that employees should have a reward structure that compensates team effort over individual effort. Keating (1999) et al. on the other hand denies additional compensation as the employees are mostly pushed by management to accept lean. So the question remains unsolved whether organizations should compensate lean success stories or not. And finally to align the enterprise with the lean changes and support such a complex system the company should also integrate its finances. 
One more critical factor of successful lean implementation mentioned in many works on the subject is organizational learning. Training capacity of the company should include qualified instructors, a specific set of tools and techniques, which has been developed for its particular needs with customized materials. Drickhamer (2004) suggests linking training to direct application of learned tools and techniques in order to adopt the lean tools.
Thus on the basis of the analyzed literature it can be concluded that efficient application of lean production implies integration of quite a complex set of essential factors into the enterprise’s performance.

Methodology
This part of the proposal will explain the methods used in carrying out the study and give special emphasis to the analysis of data obtained. It will help to elucidate the basic notions of the problem area and outline the actions that can be taken in practical part of the research. It should be stated at the outset that the methodology employed is an evolving one and will take a definite shape as the investigation is progressing. It will heavily depend on the specifics of the situation at a particular enterprise I will work with. After making inferences from the data collected I intend to apply the proposed theoretical guidance to implement lean principles in the chosen organization. However, taking into account the specific conditions I will have to decide on which additional methods to use. Such instruments as VSM, 5S, flow production, Kanban may prove to be practical for my research as they are quite rigorously and consistently applied in the bulk of lean inquiries. I aim to have under observation these techniques in order to effectively treat the issues of the particular company. 

Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. Examination of the particular enterprise will reveal the current condition of its production system and bring its issues to the foreground. It will allow me to determine its problem areas that could be improved by application of lean management principles. Then, considering all the conditions, I will be able to select the appropriate methods, adjust them for the organization in question, plan, and execute their implementation. In the end I will have to access whether the changes were successful. All the results will be reported accurately and objectively integrated with tables and figures.   

Conclusion
Present investigation addressed the application of lean production. As it is such a complex process it is necessary to explore the criteria that influence its success. The most important result obtained will provide specific recommendations for the particular enterprise on how to effectively incorporate lean management principles. I assume the methods employed are likely to have practical benefits and open up a whole range of new opportunities for the company. Specifically, the results and further recommendations should be of a great interest to the management team of the organization. To bring the project to a close I can state that my work will be an attempt to confirm the existing theoretical knowledge in practice. 
