Introduction
Background. Establishing a new business has always been considered in the context of project management which is currently of substantial significance among scholars involved in management studies. It has become an urgent priority due to the fact that organizations are experiencing fierce competition, which makes them realize that introducing project management elements is likely to provide competitive advantages. 
Over the last 40 years, due to the historical and social necessity, project management has developed into an independent professional area, making the process of establishing a new business more sophisticated. However, additional research seems needed on the effective ways of analyzing the market prior to launching a new business. 
The proposed research will examine the agricultural market with the view of establishing a company producing lettuce. The issue raised in this study seems to become increasingly important nowadays, taking into consideration the recent politico-economic changes on the world arena and in Russia, in particular. On account of the sanctions imposed by the Russian government on imported agricultural produce, the market has become less saturated which, in turn, has resulted in an increase in prices not only for foreign goods, but also those produced by local manufacturers. 
The reasons mentioned above specify the necessity to develop the agricultural area by establishing businesses cultivating fresh vegetables at lower costs all year round. 

Problem Statement. Based on traditional approaches to market analysis, the hypothesis formulated in the present research proposal follows the lead of those market specialists who believe that establishing a new business has to be preceded by market research. The research interest will center on agricultural market analysis with the emphasis made on creating a company growing lettuce and distributing it via local supermarket chains. 
The choice has been made in favor of lettuce owing to its healthy characteristics and an apparent benefit for people`s health. Another reason to build up this business lies in the possibility to cultivate local vegetables at lower costs which could allow a company to keep prices reasonable but competitive. This project is intended to cover the major issues relating to growing lettuce.
Thus, the overall goal of this project is to indicate the necessity of conducting market research when establishing a new business in a specific agricultural area and develop the main stages of market analysis. 
Seen in their relations to the general purpose, a number of specific objectives should be defined:
to investigate the existing literature on conducting market research and establishing a new business;
to study the policy of other firms involved in the same industry;
to provide greater depth of knowledge about businesses operating in the agricultural market;
to collect data on the performance of Perm’s companies over the recent period;
to make a customer survey and interpret the results.

Professional significance. Considering the increasing interest in sustained development of small enterprises, it seems worthwhile creating step-by-step procedure of conducting market analysis aimed at establishing a new business. This study will be undertaken to identify a major policy direction on achieving business effectiveness in the area of growing lettuce, which, in turn, will contribute to developing  Perm’s agricultural market as a whole.

Literature Review
This section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in two major fields: conducting agricultural market analysis and establishing a new business. 
The literature review covers the period of the past twenty years to concentrate on the most recent data that would seem relevant to the areas identified above. The problem of market analysis before establishing a new business has been subjected to scrutiny and bears upon the fundamentals of its effective implementation. 
Discussing the importance of market analysis,  states that a clear and logical market analysis identifies a long-term market potential and the most significant sources of market risk. More than that, the author emphasizes the fact that an analysis should include sensitivity analyses of key assumptions so that an entrepreneur can assess market risk more comprehensively to decide whether to proceed with the project of starting a future business (1995, p.60). 
This information seems to be essential when planning market analysis on a specific market, due to the fact that in general, market analysts tend to miss presenting specific information in a market overview. In major cases only background market information is offered, when in fact an overview should provide clear insights which are useful in measuring the feasibility of a subject project. Since the current proposal is aimed at establishing a business in the agricultural area, it will be particularly worthwhile investigating market analysis in terms of agricultural feasibility.
According to Byerlee (2009), “agriculture is a source of product, factor, foreign exchange, and market contributions that all helped trigger industrial growth” (p.36), which highlights the importance of analyzing this market in the current economic situation. First of all, it allows us to identify and satisfy human and social needs because focusing on customer satisfaction makes it possible to organize a new profitable business. It is assumed that the analysis of the market improves coordination of resources in the organization, significantly affects the attitudes of people and their way of life, as well as helps to improve the quality of life. For example, a thoroughly planned and conducted agricultural market analysis is able to encourage farm businesses to grow more organic and healthier agricultural produce. It may also contribute to recognition and dissemination of new ideas, goods and services. 
In their article Mojaveri, Hamidreza Salmani, et. al (2012) point out that despite the successful market analysis and research on new farming techniques, some owners of farm businesses may not  reach their maximum profitability for several reasons, the most important of which is that possessing agricultural knowledge and experience is not enough, because there is a wide information gap between research and practice. The authors suppose that farmers require timely expert advice to make them more productive and competitive. They offer to use SWOT-analysis, which is an important tool to support decision-making, first suggested by A. Humphey in the 1960s. Despite the fact that SWOT-analysis has been criticized by H. Minzberg, S. Armstrong and T. Levitt (2008) who considered it as a most unconvincing and contradictory  instrument for conducting a strategic market analysis. However, P. Kotler (2009)  described SWOT-analysis as one of the most popular and effective tools to conduct a systematic analysis of external and internal environment of the organization. The author stated that having identified their strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, an organization is likely to create a strategy on its strengths, to eliminate its weaknesses and use their capabilities to cope with threats.
There is no doubt that practical implementation of theoretical approaches is increasingly important, because they contribute to a complete view of an effective market investigation and help to apply the expertise, acquired earlier from the relevant research. 
As any other analysis, market research implies a procedure that generally involves a number of stages or steps. The idea of developing step-by-step approaches is repeatedly discussed and receives a wide support among authors.
Richard L. Parli, MAI (2008, p.60) advocates the idea of implementing step-by-step approaches and claims that a market analysis must proceed through six basic stages which create a road map to guide the analysis:
1. Property Productivity Analysis 
2. Specification of the Market of Most Probable Property Users
3. Demand Analysis and Forecast
4. Competitive Supply Analysis and Forecast
5. Demand and Supply Study or Equilibrium Analysis
6. Capture Analysis
A similar approach was advanced by J. Driscoll (2003) who indicated that planning a new business is based on thoroughly understanding a specific market or industry and requires taking certain steps as part of the analysis. Under the step-by-step guide the author implies that every entrepreneur should:
pay attention to seasonality, i.e. determine how much is sold in each quarter of the year; 
set the position of the industry life cycle introduction, growth, maturity or decline;
identify the main categories and segments within the industry; 
assess how the market tends to be encouraged and merchandised;
determine the price for each of the main dimensions of the package on the market; 
define the major outlets in the industry; 
calculate the proportion of industry sales passing through each outlet;
understand what the major characteristics of the outlets are.
An alternative standpoint, put forward by K. Lein (2010), emphasizes a significant role of surveys. The scientist indicates key parameters of measuring market performance and argues that the survey is one of the key methods of market analysis. 
There is also a vast body of Russian-language literature on carrying out market analysis and establishing a new business. Russian scientists touch upon these issues based on implementing various marketing tools to carry out market research.
In his article “Management Today” N. Zhdankin (2015) argues that strategic environment is determined by the analysis of environmental factors. He offers using both SWOT- analysis, a universal tool for developing strategic options and PEST-analysis for predicting, identifying and assessing the environmental factors like Policy, Economy and Society. 
I. Lemeshek (2009) expands the idea of using a McKinsey matrix – comparative analysis of market attractiveness and competitiveness of business. The basic principle of the method is to increase investment in the field of business in attractive industries, if a company has a competitive advantage for them and, conversely, to reduce investment if the market position of the product or the company on it are weak. And advice to use BCG matrix which helps to analyze the growth and market share for a comprehensive market analysis.
 Another instrument could be a corporate blog for prosperous business described by E. Andrushenko (2005) who highlights the importance of its creation to establish the contact with customers and to attract potential business contacts. 
The analysis of literature reveals that the traditional approach to establishing a new business commands wide support among foreign and Russian scientists and fits into speculations on most effective tools to conduct market research. 

Methodology
This part of the proposal explains the methods used in carrying out the research and gives special emphasis to the analysis of the data obtained. As has been shown earlier, the main intention of this research is to investigate the agricultural market with the view of establishing a company producing lettuce. It is suggested to approach the question from various perspectives of analyzing the market, which could be implemented when investigating an agricultural market. 
Following a step-by-step approach could simplify the procedure and analysis of the data which is expected to receive. At the first stage, it is necessary to conduct a consumer survey and questionnaire in local supermarkets to find out the existence of increasing demand for fresh vegetables and lettuce, in particular. These methods enable to analyze customers` attitudes to a potential business as well as predict and avoid possible shortcomings in the planning and organization process. It is supposed to be done through giving questionnaires to those buying vegetables in local supermarkets and to owners of cafés and restaurants. The data obtained is supposed to be presented in graphs and charts.
At the next stage SWOT-analysis, which is one of the up-to-date methods, is intended to be carried out. It will allow assessing the situation visually, considering the performance of the potential business and the area as a whole based on certain internal and external factors. With its help, adequate business strategies of a future company will be defined.
The final stage is devoted to analyzing the data obtained, making conclusions, and designing recommendations to improve the performance.

Results Anticipated
This part of the proposal is organized in terms of the research objectives and reports on the results which are likely to be obtained through the methods described in the previous part. 
Since the goal of the study is to discover the necessity of conducting market analysis for effective running an agricultural business, it is assumed that the results of pursuing the investigation are likely to affect the sequence of events in future business development. 
Hopefully, it will be possible to create a rich picture of the companies’ activity operating in the market and collect the required data on their current performance. More than that, the future research is expected to determine and analyze customer preferences and expectations of a potential business through conducting customer surveys and questionnaires.  

Limitations
The scope of the current research is limited by the fact that it is impossible to analyze all the companies involved in producing lettuce in Perm region. Hence, the question arises as how to collect as much data as possible in order to make more precise predictions in the industry. It is likely to be difficult to find all necessary information about the competitors on the market. However, it stands to mention, that every analysis may encounter with such a problem which makes possible to consider a range from 5 to 10 companies. 
Another difficulty refers to the problem of getting the exact results obtained from the survey. Not all the interviewed respondents, as a rule, answer fairly or not seriously enough to the survey questions, which makes it necessary to use various methods. 
Finally, the recommendations given might not be used by every company working in this area.
 
Conclusion
The objective of any market research should be not only developing a structure of learning technologies but finding ways to solve pressing problems for the enterprise as a prerequisite is not a technique, but an explanation of why we need it and what the problem is.
Almost any market analysis is intended to answer the following question: "Can we successfully, that is with a profit, exchange our products for an adequate amount of money or other products?" Thus, it appears from what has been discussed in the present proposal that serious attention should be paid to every detail in the market analysis procedure.
Taking into consideration the fact that markets are constantly changing, businesses must analyze various aspects of the market to make timely alterations to marketing strategies that could allow them to keep ahead. For this reason, businesses that are about to emerge on the market are supposed to perform extensive research into the business environment so that they can find out which products will provide the highest benefit to customers.
The baseline results of the present research enable to conclude that in today's highly competitive environment an in-depth business planning a well as a well-organized market analysis are s for a new company to succeed on the market.