Introduction
Background. At present, theorists of management hold quite various doctrines about employee displacement implication in the context of  Human Resource Management System. Recent investigations appeared in academic arguments focus on its ability to create economic advantage as a main feature of   the category mentioned (Mironenko, 2007).  Simultaneously, today there is an upward tendency in the number of researches which demonstrate negative effects of employee displacement on the organizations applying   this practice. In some cases these effects can overbalance benefit from employee displacement and reduce it to nothing. Under present conditions of economic recession the discrepancy presented becomes critical for the organizations considering employee displacement as an effective way to maintain   their market share. However insufficient knowledge of employee displacement nature makes it impossible to create practical instruments for reduction of the negative effects mentioned.  
Within this framework, investigations on employee displacement nature become actual and essential as a possible way to form theoretical base for further practical studies.

Problem Statement. The present project follows the scholars who consider nature of a process as a set of unique features.  
The general purpose of the present investigation is to identify specific features of employee displacement as a process in the context of Human Resource Management System. To achieve the purpose mentioned it is important to accomplish following immediate aims:
To systemize basic approaches to employee displacement interpretation and to suggest new treatment of the category mentioned.
To analyze main theoretical concepts and practical models of employee displacement as a process.
To identify basic elements of employee displacement.
To analyze the process of employee displacement in the case of eight Perm companies, compare theoretical and practical conclusions and suggest a theoretical model considering specific features identified. 

Professional Significance. In the present project I make an attempt to generate a complex view on employee displacement.  The academic novelty of the investigation could be expressed in terms of a new classification suggested. The classification of approaches to employee displacement is based on the connection between interpretation of the category mentioned and the subject of the investigation where a particular interpretation was introduced. The system described comprises majority of modern approaches to employee displacement and serves as a foundation for new treatment of the category   analyzed. 

Delimitations of the Study.  The present investigation follows the lead of those theorists of management who tend to consider employee displacement as a process which success is determined by its own structure and internal factors of its realization.  Therefore no systematic effort will be made to analyze external conditions of an organization which uses employee displacement as a method to reduce its costs. Furthermore the interpretation of employee displacement suggested in the present investigation seems to be irrelevant to environmental analysis. 
Within this framework object and subject of the present research could be determined as follows: 
Object of the present investigation is the process of employee displacement.
Subject of the present research is specific features of employee displacement process in the context of human resource management system.

Literature Review
In the history of science the category “employee displacement” is considered as a relatively new one. First it was introduced for scientific use in the late 1980th  to describe a new tendency in cost management (Mironenko, 2005). At that time, a great number of companies started to use mass dismissal as an effective instrument to reduce personnel cost in a short term. The technology itself was called “downsizing”, whereas the process of mass dismissal was defined as employee displacement. There are two main approaches to the category of downsizing explaining its connection with the concept of employee displacement: holistic approach and Cascio approach (Gandolfi, 2013). Holistic approach considers downsizing as a set of actions necessary for increasing organizational effectiveness, productiveness and competitiveness (Cameron, 1994).From this point of view employee displacement could be considered as one among many processes within the framework of downsizing. 
Casio approach interprets downsizing as a “planned” and “normal” process of mass dismissal in an organization (Cascio, 1993). These two features are often considered as two determinants of employee displacement in modern interpretation irrespective of the approach chosen (Fallick, 1996).   In the decade between early 1990s and the end of 1990s the conception of employee displacement has undergone a root and branch transformation.  In the time frame mentioned scholars started to give interpretation to the category “employee displacement” similar to Cascio interpretation of downsizing. This tendency could be identified in terms of articles of Fallick and Kletzer. In their papers written in 1995-1996 they use the category downsizing, whereas in their articles written in the end of 1990s they tend to define the same process as employee displacement.  The fact     presented shows the connection between two categories mentioned.   Moreover a number of scholars (including Mironenko, Gandolfi, Black, Isaev, etc.) consider employee displacement and downsizing (from the perspective of Cascio) as the same concept. The present investigation follows this standpoint. 
Despite of two characteristic features (planned and normal) identified by Cascio, today the concept of employee displacement does not have interpretation universal.  A great number of approaches to the category mentioned require a detailed classification. At present, attempts to systematize existent interpretations of employee displacement were made in a few investigations. However most of these classifications tend to ignore a group of multidisciplinary approaches.
In this project I suggest a new classification of approaches to employee displacement founded on connection between a particular interpretation and the subject of investigation where the interpretation was presented. According the principle mentioned, all the investigations on employee displacement were divided into three groups: “human as a subject of a research”, “process as a subject of a research” and “macro objects” (see Appendix 1). 
The first group includes the investigations which focus on employee displacement as a significant factor affecting personnel of an organization. One of the specific features of these investigations is an attempt to consider employee displacement from the perspective of an employee of a company.  The group mentioned includes three subgroups:  “social-psychological approach”, “psychological and medical approach”, “economic approach”.
The first subgroup includes researches analyzing social and (or) psychological effect of employee displacement on employees, their families and friends. The approach mentioned includes investigations of Brand, Thomas, Uhlendorff, Laurence, Huttunen etc.  In general, investigations included into this subgroup define employee displacement as a dismissal which was initiated by downsizing or dissolution of a company, which has negative effect on an employee, his family and friends (Brand, Thomas, 2014).  
“Psychological and medical approach” includes the investigations focusing on health consequences of employee displacement. The approach mentioned includes investigations of Black, Devereux, Browning, Schaller, Stevens etc.  These  Scholars consider  employee displacement  as  a process  of  post disestablishment  which  harms    employee health and  health of his family  members (Black, 2015).
“Economic approach” involves a number of investigations which show the effect of the present concept on families of employees displaced in the context of welfare. The approach mentioned comprises researches of Carrington, Fallick, Krolikowski, Flaaen, Song etc. Within the framework of the subgroup presented scholars define employee displacement as a dismissal (Carrington, 2015).
Thus all three approaches involved to the group “human as subject of a research” were considered. Each of these approaches provides   the category of employee displacement with a new sense. However all the interpretations presented have the same base: they consider employee displacement as a dismissal.  This tendency corresponds to the main principle of the group mentioned:  to describe employee displacement from the perspective of an employee.  
The second group is “process as subject of a research” which includes the investigations considering employee displacement as an important element within Human Resource Management System. This group includes two subgroups: “management practice approach” and “technological approach”. 
“Management practice approach” involves empirical investigations which focus on creation practical employee displacement mechanisms for a particular organization. Within the framework of the approach mentioned,   job displacement is usually defined as a set of actions necessary for decreasing the number of company employees in a short term (Shebetun, 2013).It is important to note, that some scholars, which investigations could be included at the present subgroup, consider employee displacement as a conception similar to the category of mass dismissals. Others regard the category mentioned as one of job displacement methods. 
The second subgroup of investigations is “technological approach”. It includes researches considering employee displacement as cancellation of an employee agreement, which was initiated by the need to improve efficiency of an organization (Mironenko, 2005). This approach could be considered as the first attempt to take a longer view on employee displacement as a way to gain competitive advantage.  The approach mentioned involves investigations of Moore, Mironenko, Skavitin, Dolzenkova etc.
Despite of the differences between “technological approach” and “Management practice approach” they have a similar element which could be considered as a unique feature of the group “process as a subject of a research” in general.  Both of them analyze the category employee displacement from the perspective of an organization 
The last element of the present classification is “macro objects”. This group unites investigations which attempt to estimate the effect of employee displacement on the national scale or even globally. The group mentioned includes a great number of researches, which is enough to be divided into some subgroups (as it was done with two previous elements of the classification). However the analysis of these investigations has shown the following tendency:  most of the scholars who research the global effect of employee displacement tend to give similar interpretation to the category mentioned. According to the fact presented the block “macro objects” will not be divided into subgroups. The approach involves researches of Addison, Asadul, Boman, Deelen, Laurence, etc. who define employee displacement as a mass dismissal initiated by external factors (for organization) (Deelen, 2014).
The classification presented systemizes a good deal of approaches to the concept of employee displacement and serves as basis for creation of my own interpretation. At present project employee displacement will be defined as cancellation of employee agreement or temporary suspension of a worker, stimulated by internal factors and aimed to gain competitive advantage.  According to the classification suggested the present interpretation could be included to the group “process as subject of a research” and to the subgroup “technological approach”.

Methods
This part of the proposal provides a brief overview on the methods employed within the scope of the present investigation. Since the process of job displacement as a separate area of research does not have its own research methodology, this project is based on instruments typical for business processes investigations. Within the framework mentioned empirical part of the present research involves three mains stages: “document analysis”, “interview stage”, “contrastive analysis and modeling”.
At the first stage I will examine a number of documents on employee displacement received from eight Perm organizations. According to the general purpose of the investigation, it is important to identify the structure of job displacement as a process in the context of each of the eight companies. This task could be accomplished by means of content analysis.  
The aim of “interview stage” is to describe the use of   theoretical structures mentioned in practice. To achieve this, HR managers of the 8 companies will be asked to complete the survey on job displacement specific features. After that, I will interview senior managers of the same companies to identify procedures necessary to implement employee displacement in practice. 
At the stage “contrastive analysis and modeling” the information collected within two previous stages will be summarized and encoded for the purpose of statistical analysis. The analysis mentioned will show general and unique features of employee displacement as a process in each of the organizations. 
After that I will conduct factor analysis to identify the elements of employee displacement which could be considered as key determinants of the process success.  Finally, the data collected will be summarized at a theoretical model of employee displacement which will be supported with a list of recommendations for making the process mentioned more effective.

Results Anticipated
This part of the project describes results which are likely to be obtained (or have already been obtained) within the present investigation. In terms of the immediate aims set, I analyzed a good deal of theoretical literature on employee displacement then considered existent classifications of approaches to the category mentioned and finally created my own classification. The classification mentioned was used to make a new interpretation of employee displacement which serves the general purpose of the present research. In future I plan to create theoretical model of job displacement which, on the one hand, will illustrate the essence of the category mentioned, its structure and its position in Human Resource Management System (HRMS). On the other hand, this model will be based on best practices of the 8 Perm companies, which have an experience in employee displacement. The model will be supported with detailed recommendations on how to make the process mentioned more effective and gain economical advantage. As this model will include best practices and recommendations, I will make an attempt to test it on three companies working at the same industry.

Conclusion
From the material presented, it can be concluded that interpretation of employee displacement nature is an actual problem which effect on organizations tend to increase in the context of economic recession. 
The present investigation does not pretend to find a universal solution of the problem mentioned. Moreover, this solution cannot be found within the framework of a single research. The results of the project are intended to form theoretical basis for further investigations in the present research area. The project follows the approach considering nature of a process as a set of specific characteristics.  According to the principle mentioned, all the research methods employed focus on identification of job displacement unique features.
Within the present investigation a good deal of literature was analyzed.  I suggested a new classification of the approaches to employee displacement founded on the connection between the object of a research and its interpretation of the category mentioned. The concept of employee displacement was given a new interpretation as a process of employee temporary suspension or dismissal, aimed to gain competitive advantage.  The investigation focuses on the nature of employee displacement as a process, thus I do not analyze external factors, considering them as a constant.
In future, information presented will form the theoretical basis for empirical research which will be aimed to create a general model of employee displacement in the context of HRMS.