INTRODUCTION
In conformity with the tradition of social and economic studies, in the framework of my project the immediate aims presuppose to explore various methods to the problem that contemporary theorists have advocated, and to reveal the underlying logic of rational strategic planning. Considering the continuous interest in running new restaurants, it seems worthwhile to follow and develop certain brand new conceptions in this respect. Additionally, since there is presently much undeniable concern for attracting increasingly new comers, another specific aim of the analyses involves emphasizing the significance of excellent restaurant conception.  
Nowadays a vast majority of companies, which are closely connected with catering field within Russian economy attempt to attract more customers to public nutrition establishments. The point is that city Perm’s market is eliminating itself. Most of the restaurateurs are deprive of inspirational flows and have no opportunities for inviting new guests. 
These conditionsare particularly appropriate for launching new business unit in frameworks of opening an unconventional pub that will be able to provide Perm’s citizens with brand new experiences and delicatessens. However, it is an open-source information that the competence together with barriers to entry are enormously high, the way of solving that kind of economic problem is going to be revealed in this research proposal.

LITERATURE REVIEW
The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject. Since the notion of market analysis is highly complicated and extremely complex it is expedient to investigate it as accurately as possible. In upcoming investigations, numerous attempts have been made in order to give a broader theoretical basis to the research of this phenomenon and to revise traditional ideas about its nature. The new contemporary trend reflects this potentially important drive towards deepening theoretical thinking about general field of the science. 
RESTAURANT BUSINESS’S DEFINITION
World famous restaurateurs-entrepreneurs whose life purpose is to create value for customers in such an unpredictable sphere of the day-to-day consumption. “Catering business, definitely, is a very prestigious branch of the economic activity in modern Russia. Restaurant handicraft has now become the prerogative of the new bourgeois class of domestic entrepreneurs, keep on the idea of opening their own restaurant hospitability” (Ilia Laserson, “How to attract guests to the restaurant”, 2011). Not in vain the entire community of caterers calls their endless customers “guests”. The idea is not only to treat those buyers very hospitably and cordially, but also to inculcate ingenious perception. 
CREATIVE INDUSTRY in TERMS of CATERING
Firms operating in creative industries provide not solely the product. The more significant aspect is internal value which contains innovative experiences and ideas for consumers. Supposedly, the underestimation of the outstanding impact of innovatory approaches on modern economies disadvantageously affects conservative businesses. According to UNESCO, such cultural and social industries “combine the creation, production, and distribution of goods and services that are (intangible and) cultural in nature and usually protected by intellectual property rights” (Chen-Yi Hsu, Che-Chen Huang, Ti-Ming Chang, 2012). Service industry in terms of restaurant business is eternally growing and is gradually integrating into culture and, as the consequence, into creative industry (Terry Flew, 2006). Humanity are starting to realize the extra value of services they obtain and become extremely addicted to it. For instance, they attend restaurants or saloons not only for the partaking of meals, but simultaneously for feeling and savoring its conceptual content.
OUTWARD CONCEPTION 
It should be mentioned that conception of the tavern influences greatly on attracting the attention of townees. In concordance with Laserson “conception “I am – restaurant” is an updated method to enterprise management system of hospitability suggesting the involvement of all the staff in the process of decision-making and creating conditions for the formation of personal interest in the achievement of common goals and objectives”. Obviously, that system of total participation leads to development of successful business environment wherein the staid group dynamics acts as an indispensable tool for being one team. Furthermore, close cooperative relationships help to splendid mutual help or understanding. Besides, as the result it brings to offering and evaluating new ideas and current improvements.
KEY SUCCESS FACTORS for CATERING
Accomplishment of key factors elevates the competitive position. These factors are the key to success in the competition (Jorge Alberto Sausa De Vasconcellos E Sa, Donald C. Hambrick, 2006). The result of the game depends on how you are aware of this issue before making the first move. Thereby, aggregative strategic planning together with rigorous rival analyses are of the highest importance, as they will ensure guarantees to the executor how to survive in such sophisticated market. Moreover, developing a competent business plan is either substantial issue, since the restaurant ought to receive profit.   

METHODOLOGY
This part of the proposal will provide explanation of the methods to be used in carrying out this study giving special emphasis to the analysis of the data collected. It should be made clear at the outset that the methodology selected is to a certain extent an evolving one and will distinctively take a more definite shape as the study is progressing. To be more precisely, it is a specialist approach within a broad field of analyzing tools. Methodology of the study is divided into three main stages:
The first stage state that the catering market will be analyzed and determined with the help of special tools and approaches, such as SWOT-analyses, PEST-analyses, 5 Porter’s forces, examination of barriers to entry and developing the strategic canvas. Unequivocally, the best method for estimating the market is to inspect the rivalry. That is why much of attention will be devoted to competitive analysis. Likewise, forming and carrying out a case-study among potential customers is another key feature. After that, systematic process appears the more clear vision of current situation touching Perm’s catering market. 
The second stage is to design the unique and alpha plus conception of the restaurant. To identify all the features of the inside and outside styling and assert its benefits. Certainly, the image of the restaurant implies close connection with customers. So, Ian Gordon stated, that the nature of marketing has evolved and continues to do so as marketing transitions from a discipline focused on mass and segment-based marketing using the principles of cognitive psychology, to an era in which marketing seeks to cater to individuals by making extensive use of behavioral psychology and, most recently, the application of social psychology and to management of the customer relationships (Wiley & Sons, 1998, p. 177).  That brings me to another important issue – to pay attention to psychological side of analysis.
The final stage of the analysis is associated with scheduling the business plan or recommendations concerning opening a new business. The main goal of the third stage of the research is to make sure that required investments will escalate into prosperous and well-known lifework. According to Goalen (2011) it is significant “for an entrepreneur to be passionate: his or her project ought to stretch beyond the concept of a straightforward business for it to have a place within this platform” (p. 94). Consequently, the concept of Kickstarter is an irreplaceable engine for vivifying and improving practically every kind of business.  

RESULTS ANTICIPATED
This part of the proposal is organized in terms of exploratory issues posed in chapter 1, and reports on the results that are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned above. One of the purposes determined in this connection is to make the reliability and validity of the data received high enough to support the sustained analysis, especially at the same time as the project presents disconfirming evidence of defection explained in the existing theories.
It is expected that the outcome of the theoretical part will be constructing the survey basis, which will further transubstantiate into optional market research. Thus, we could operate with required information in order to create opportunities for launching new catering unit. Moreover, I am going to work on the case-study information that will be obtained by dint of conducting deep qualitative and quantitative research methods. Based on the strategy of social survey Yadov originally proposed a following definition of interviewing - it is “an indispensable method of obtaining information about the subjective attitude of people, their inclinations, motives and opinions” (2007).
The first paragraph of practical part is aimed to observe the market and distinguish a suitable market niche.
The second paragraph, finally, will consist of structured business plan and subsequent recommendations for running the project rationally. 

CONCLUSION
My research of catering market in the city of Perm will bring the following points to the foreground. I will definitely start off by arguing in favour of a radical transformation of the current process of marketing analysis, as I have already managed to embed some new sort of tools and approaches that will in theory assist in successful launching a city restaurant. In any case, that demanding and scrupulous research of the catering field is a significant matter. Eventually, possessing required information about customer preferences and requirements, I will affirmatively:
Detect an appropriate market niche.
Constitute customer’s appearance.
Work out special and unique concept together with elements designed for customer’s addiction and request (new experiences and feelings).
Create a calculated business plan for restaurant blanked with forthcoming risks and investments. 
Insert future promotion recommendations.   
Finally, I will attempt to offer a theoretically proved business plan as an evidence that Perm’s market is still a profitable part of Russia’s economy and that it is efficient to launch exactly that type of the restaurant. Also, the outcomes of my survey will be helpful for beginning entrepreneurs as they will be given an impetus to act or alter in more innovative and claimed way.