At present, an increasing amount of publications in the sphere of Lean Production signifies the undeniable interest in this concept and its features. Moreover, it becomes one of main aims for many company managers. In the context of contemporary competition, they need to exert their maximum efforts and entrepreneurial skills not only to “stay afloat” but also to outmarket competitors. Any business owner knows that a business is created to make a profit from the sale of particular set of products or the diverse services provision. It is necessary to take action on the structuring of business to achieve the desired result. It is also essential to strive to eliminate all wastes within a manufacturing system. Lean philosophy is aimed at solving precisely these problems. Thus, this plays a significant part in successful development of company and it only increases the research interest in this topic.
There are many examples of organizations, which became successful applying Lean-technologies. Lean tools are implemented in such companies as Nike, Hoffmann Group, Intel, Ford etc. and, as it is widely known, their businesses prosper. The very first using lean was in Toyota Motor Corporation. In the fifties of the twentieth century, Taiichi Ohno formalized the ideas of Lean Manufacturing and created the Toyota Production System.

Problem statement. According to the tradition of in Lean Production, the initial research question can be started as follows: How can the removal of all types of losses be achieved? However, this research will not be aimed only at a reduction of costs but rather a combination of decrease of production losses and an improvement of quality. It also should be noted that there is some empirical constraints connected with slow introduction of Lean at the enterprises. These problems are described and analyzed in the study. In addition to that, there is a set of recommendations for solving them. Thus, the general purpose of the proposal is to provide more profound knowledge about the issue of introduction of Lean-technologies in production at the company.
The principles of the Toyota way and the tools of Lean Production will form the field of my study. 

Delimitations of the study. In the framework of the project the main interest and emphasis will consist in an analysis of introduction and applying such tool of Lean-technologies as a system 5S in production at the enterprise. This methodology is important and useful since applies to organize and improve the efficiency of a shared workspace. To achieve the goal, it seems relevant to analyze of scientific sources and literature on the research topic.

Professional significance. The practical significance of the work stems from the complex of suggestions and the results anticipated. Thus, the research will contribute to the development of theoretical works concerning the system 5S.

Definitions of key terms. Lean Manufacturing, Lean Production or Lean-technologies, often simply "Lean", is highly efficient manufacturing techniques directed to eliminate all wastes in production at the enterprise. However, it is important to emphasize that in practice Lean Manufacturing maximizes the value of the product through minimization of waste.
System 5S is one of the most powerful Lean Manufacturing tools, which is designed to organize the workplace, keep it clean, maintain effective and standard conditions. It also should be noted that some authors supplement the system with new elements.

Literature review
A large body of literature on Lean Manufacturing provides a basis for the present study. This section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. The most important works have been made by Jeffrey K. Licker and John F. Krafcik. 
The term “Lean Production” was introduced by John Krafcik in "Triumph of the Lean Production System" in 1988 (Krafcik, 1988). In spite of this the key ideas were laid long before by Taiichi Ohno in Toyota Motor Corporation. Fourteen principles, formulated by the latter, gained a wide renown thanks to Jeffrey Liker’s work “The Toyota Way: 14 Management Principles from the World's Greatest Manufacturer” (Liker, 2004).
The 14 principles of The Toyota Way are organized in four sections:
1.	Long-Term Philosophy;
2.	The Right Process Will Produce the Right Results;
3.	Add Value to the Organization by Developing Your People;
4.	Continuously Solving Root Problems Drives Organizational Learning.
The principles are set out and briefly described below.
There is only one principle in the first section, which is directed to basing of the management decisions on a long-term philosophy, even at the expense of short-term financial goals. Moreover, people need purpose to find motivation and establish goals.
Next seven principles apply to the second section. Thus, following idea is to create a continuous process flow to bring problems to the surface. This flow could become part of the organizational culture that is understandable to all. This is the key to the continuous improvement and development of people.
Third principle is to use "pull" systems to avoid overproduction. This system implies that the material required for work is provided at the right time and in the right quantity. The supply of goods is replenished only with use (Sundara, Balajib, SatheeshKumar, 2014).
Next principle is connected with even distribution of the amount of work. Elimination of losses is only one of the three conditions for the success of lean manufacturing. Eliminating of people and equipment overload and smoothing of uneven production schedule are just as important. This is often misunderstood in the companies that are trying to apply the principles of lean manufacturing.
Fifth idea consists in building a culture of stopping to fix problems, to get quality right the first time. Quality takes precedence (Jidoka). Any employee in the Toyota Production System has the authority to stop the process to signal a quality issue.
According to the sixth principle, standardized tasks and processes are the foundation for continuous improvement and employee empowerment. It is significant to use stable, repeatable methods of work to make the result more predictable and to determine the best accumulated knowledge about the production process.
Seventh principle is to “use visual control so no problems are hidden”.  Included in this principle is the 5S System – steps that are used to make all work spaces efficient and productive, help people share work stations, reduce time looking for needed tools and improve the work environment. More detail will be discussed below.
Eighth principle focuses on using of only reliable, thoroughly tested technology that serves personnel and processes. New technologies are often unreliable and difficult to standardize, and this poses a threat to the flow. Instead, it is better to use of unproven technology known.
There are three principles in third section. Ninth idea is to grow leaders who thoroughly understand the work, live the philosophy, and teach it to others. Without constant attention, the principles will fade so employees must be educated and trained.
Tenth idea underlines importance of developing of exceptional people and teams who follow the company's philosophy. Formation of cross-functional teams could improve quality and productivity and to improve the flow at the expense of solving complex technical problems.
Eleventh principle connected with respect to the partners and the suppliers, confronting them with challenges and help them to improve. It is important to create conditions for partners to encourage their growth and development. This favorably affects their relation to the company.
Last section consists three principles. Twelfth idea literally sounds like “Go and see for yourself to thoroughly understand the situation (Genchi Genbutsu)”. At the heart of reflection and discussion should be based on verified data.
Thirteenth principle asserts that it is necessary to make decisions slowly by consensus, thoroughly considering all options; implement decisions rapidly (nemawashi). The process of joint discussion of problems applies to make an informed decision.
Fourteenth idea recommends to become a learning organization through relentless reflection (hansei) and continuous improvement (kaizen). The process of becoming a learning organization involves criticizing every aspect of what one does. (Liker, 2004).
Thus, general idea of Lean Production is to spend less human effort, equipment, time, production facilities and produce more quality products that the consumer wants.
One of significant Lean tools is the above-mentioned System 5S. This is the methodology of creation and maintaining well organized, clean, high effective and high quality workplace (Pasale, 2013).
5S is the acronym for five Japanese words: Seiri, Seiton, Seiso, Seiketsu and Shitsuke and they represent the five steps for a systematic technique for good housekeeping as indicated in the table below:
Seiri (Sort) – Distinguish between necessary and unnecessary items. Remove the latter.
Seiton (Set in order) – Enforce the dictum a place for everything and everything in its place.
Seiso (Shine) - Clean up the workplace and look for ways to keep it clean.
Seiketsu (Standardize) - Maintain and monitor adherence to the first three 5S.
Shitsuke (Sustain) - Follow the rule to keep the workplace 5S-right. Hold the gain (5S: Good Housekeeping Techniques).
Step “Sort” is important since it allows reduces problems and annoyances in the work flow, improves communication between workers, increases product quality, enhances productivity. In addition, space, time, money, energy, and other resources can be managed and used most effectively.
Step “Set in order” is directed to eliminate many kinds of waste, including: searching waste, waste due to difficulty in using items, waste due to difficulty in returning items.
Step “Shine” is also significant because focuses on turning of the workplace into a clean bright place where everyone will enjoy working and keeping of thing in a condition so it is ready to be used when needed.
In context step “Standardize” by ensuring conditions do not deteriorate to former state, facilitates implementation of the first three steps.
Step “Sustain” is essential because consequences of not keeping to the course of action greater than consequences of keeping to it. (Implementing 5S Workplace Organization)
Some authors add a sixth S – for Safety. Implementation of such Lean tool as the 5S system usually starts with a manageable project (Chitre, 2010).These tend to be in limited work areas or warehouse locations. Once implemented, the results are publicized and the concept is expanded to other areas. The strength of 5S is the ease of understanding and implementing the concept.

Methods
This part of the proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the study, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data. lt should be noted at the outset that the methodology to a certain extent is an evolving one, which will take definite shape as the study is progressing
The goal of the research will be achieved by primary and secondary date, which will include observation, interviews with executives, company overviews and content analysis of scientific sources and literature on the research topic. These methods will give relevant results since the sample focuses on opinions of experts of research field.

Results anticipated
The following part of the proposal reports on the results, which are likely to be obtained with the above-mentioned methods. Part of results will be includes graphs and drawing, all other results are represented in the narrative text. The Facts obtained constitute a test of the theory. Moreover, it should be noted that because of effective methods, the reliability and the validity of carefully collected data is high enough to support the sustained analysis. To elucidate the details, I will adduce on some comparable examples drawn from different sources within the framework of both this study and another ones on the problem.

Conclusion
On the whole, the research provides more profound understanding of the issue of Lean-technologies and its introduction in production at the enterprises. This study is based on reliable collected data. Moreover, some recommendations as evolving 5S system could be suggested to favour the development of industry. There are cleanliness in the workplace, to remove from the working area of unnecessary items, providing quick and easy access to the tools, to decrease in marriage, monitor the workplace and the number of tools required, to reduce the time changeovers and improving safety. These changes applies to organize and improve the efficiency of a shared workspace and, consequently, pave the way for effective functioning of enterprises.

