Introduction
Background. Nowadays leadership in organization broadens frames of stereotypes and prejudices. In international scale managers prefer to make decisions according to professional standards. Major Russian companies also find professionalism, competence of workers, personal features as the main value for a particular profession. In this case, gender factor is not the most significant criterion in the question of employment. At the same time, leadership process is directly influenced by gender aspect. Priorities, general organizational principles, definitions of objectives, internal and external procedures depend on the teams’ and employees’ features. From psychological point of view, men and women behave differently as far as they have specific biological characteristics. Undoubtedly, behaviour in organization depends on all the peculiarities of  each colleague. According to that, gender factors plays a significant role in a company and all organizational interactions. 
While the debate on this problem seems to gain popularity it has not had much impact on current situation in Russian business sphere.  An increasing amount of publications in the sphere of gender problem signify the growing interest of specialists to that question. However, there is a gap between theoretical understanding and its practical application. 
Closer theory studying will help to achieve mutual understanding between colleagues; decrease the subjective factor in decision making, easier corporate culture forming. 

Problem statement. The general research purpose is to explore regularities in gender asymmetry. According to existing theoretical base, managers with a different gender act differently in working processes. They have various aims, priorities and features of leadership. On the other hand, interaction between workers of lower levels and their reaction on a leader also depends on gender factor. Therefore it could be concerned that gender asymmetry exists in organizational sphere and has distinctive features. The formulated hypothesis can provide clear explanation for the gap between a serious influence of gender stereotypes especially in Russian business and the practical use of professionally obtained criteria. 
In the present research I am going to study theoretical model of gender asymmetry, to examine statistics of gender asymmetry in modern Russian companies, its tendencies and problems. Further it is necessary to investigate gender asymmetry in particular organizations in Perm to study the problem empirically. 

Delimitations of the study. Present investigation should not be made in the scope of a worldwide business as far as it is limited with sufficient national features. Also, my aim is not to review all Russian practice in management because it is not necessary for our research. The emphasis of the study is to explore qualitative features and tendencies in gender asymmetry. Furthermore, it has to be mentioned that the sample of companies in present research is limited, but representative because of the main characteristics. 

Professional significance. The raised problem can be a matter of significance for specialists in human resource management, psychological science, organizational behaviour and corporate culture. The issue of gender asymmetry is also connected with some economical questions as far as competent interpretation of the researches may contribute to general efficiency and profits. Generally, the model of gender asymmetry may serve as a key for mutual understanding between managers and staff. 

Literature Review
In the present literature review I will examine both theoretical and empirical studies for the gender role in management. 
A considerable work in management theory provides a solid grounding for practice. According to the most contemporary studies the main factors of organizational behaviour and management itself are the age of a company, its size, internal and external conditions, general competitiveness. Additionally, the growing number of scholars argue that it is significant to consider gender structure of personnel in a company and gender of its manager. 
Firstly, it is important to mention that historically gender issue has been a part of philosophy discussion. Solovyov V.S., Bulgakov S.N., Berdyaev N.N. examined issues of gender interaction in a society. In this context, such gender fundamentals form social stereotypes that take place in organizational sphere. 
The research findings over a twenty-year period have contrasting results. Some of them support the idea of gender differences. This approach defines masculine style of management as instrumental with transactional features. Feminine style is orientated on people, taking care of them and education. Researchers Willis Q. and  Petzall S. have proved the idea of gender inequality. The results of their organizational investigation shows that female managers are innovative, they are able to define priorities and coordinate working process. Their communicative skill were also better than men's. Teambuilding and staff development are significant for women in business according to the following research. Male managers were described as bureaucratic and result-oriented (Gary, 2003).
A focus on similarities between masculine and feminine features suggests another view. Its supporters state that professional qualities and characteristics of leadership style do not depend on gender. For example, Billing Y.D. and  Alvesson M. made a bibliographic research: results show a little difference between men and women as managers. Scholars have took into account behaviour, professional priorities, communicational skills and other aspects of management enterprise. Vilkinas T. and  Cartan G. interviewed many bosses, after what they confirm that male and female managers are the same effectiveness and competence (Karsten, 2010). I think that this approach is not really suitable for characterizing qualities of Russian managers. Prevailing part of directors and big businessmen are still men. In Russian conditions they have to be strong and determined. Female leaders do not always demonstrate such features, but they have another benefits like communicational skills or creative thinking.
Speaking about the existing theoretical and empirical knowledge I can make a presumption that gender stereotypes and myths play a significant role in management practice. Further it is necessary to review main approaches to stereotyping in order to make clear understanding of possible gender asymmetry reasons. 
Gender stereotypes in management sphere have been studied for the last 50 years. In 1960’s 1970’s there was a belief that women are not able to be in a role of manager.  The principle was: “think manager – think male” (Ross, 2008).  Since then many investigations and theories tried to provide an opposite view. Notwithstanding these attempts stereotypes still make barriers for women in business. For example, there is an opinion that women are less educated and competent than men. However, researchers Caligiuri P.M. and Tung R.L. state that in 2007 half of American managers were women. Moreover, they argue that women's professional expectations do not differ from men's. They provide statistical information about international business. Scholars make a conclusion that male and female managers are both successful in this profession. 
The most significant theoretical and empirical work for present research is the dissertation “Gender concept of organizational culture” (Iliyinikh S.A., 2009). The basis of Iliyinikh’s approach is the influence of gender stereotypes on internal organizational environment. In her work she makes a sufficient analysis of male and female strategies, psychological aspects, possible conflicts, decision-making and optimal proportions of men and women in different kinds of organizations. The most important thing in her work is gender asymmetry model that provides basis for empirical part in my research. I do not take into account theoretic material about corporate culture, but I find her methodology very comprehensive. 
Another work by Sweida L. and Reichard J. describes unexpected aspects connected with stereotype problem. They manage to explain a vital point: women are differently oriented and the influence of stereotypes on their work is also variable. Researchers argue: “high-growth women entrepreneurs seem to neutralize the effects of gender stereotyping by viewing these barriers as challenges to be conquered”. On the other hand, they say: “low-growth women entrepreneurs tend to view themselves as deficient or “lacking something” as a business owner” (Sweida, 2013). I think that this position can be acceptable in contemporary Russian conditions because a growing number of perspective and confident women take part in different kinds of business projects. However, stereotype of seek and irresponsible women is strong in Russian mentality, so that it could be a serious barrier. Generally, their research states, that “women’s intention to engage in entrepreneurship is lower than men’s” (Sweida, 2013). 

Methods
This part of my proposal explains the methods that are going to be used in carrying out the research, giving special emphasis to the analysis of data and making a focus on own gender asymmetry model. As it was said, the general empirical framework of the research has been derived from Iliyinih’s approach in gender asymmetry. Qualitative methods of data collection are necessary for my work as far as the aim is to compare male and female features in a context of following factors: manager’s attitude to workers, company’s strategy, corporate culture, mission, internal philosophy in organization, atmosphere in a company. 
Firstly, I need to make semi-structured interviews with managers. Managers serve as experts because they can provide not only information about company’s culture and staff’s characteristics, but also give personal judgement of male and female effectiveness. Moreover, in these interviews I am going to ask questions about their own enterprise as professionals. 
Afterwards, I have to collect data connected with the staff’s attitude and assessment. Iliyinikh’s approach considers a questionnaire that is acceptable as a useful instrument in my research. The sample includes all the workers of investigated organizations. The database represents elaborated information about following companies: “FRAU&MANN”, “ASTRA”. The first one is a fashion-service shop, its stuff includes 15 people. The second firm’s business is connected with goods production and transportation into regions and personnel consists of 20 people.
Finally, all the data collected after staff analysis will be analysed and compared with managers’ results in order to make a conclusion of patterns and contradictions of different genders. 

Results Anticipated
The final part of the proposal will report the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned. It might be expected that correlation between interviews and questionnaire results will provide evidence of existing gender asymmetry. Considering elaborated facts I am going to formulate a gender model based on specific features of gender interactions in companies. The structure of the model can be seen in Table 1. To obtain more specific information on each point  I will select criteria and make a comparison of results according to it. 
By accomplishing the research project it would be extremely interesting to make a model containing facts and conclusions that are not presented in literature or media sources. I am going to consider simple characteristics of each point, and to analyze it from the point of view of a manager as a leader. I can expect that the following investigation may show possible communicational gender problems, so that I will be able to formulate recommendations and goals to be achieved in each company. 
Generally, the results anticipated are intended to further elucidate the potential of gender asymmetry theory as a factor of increasing organizational efficiency.

Conclusion
The problem raised concerns determination of gender features that appear in working process. The punch line of the study bases mainly on the necessity to define differences between male and female managers, investigate their professional expectations and priorities. Consequently, the study of gender asymmetry requires an initial consideration of significant factors like biological and psychological human characteristics, existing social stereotypes and myths, personal qualities and its professional significance. Empirical research can provide necessary facts to formulate difficulties and benefits of gender interaction on different organizational levels. Ilyinikh's approach with a questionnaire in comparison with interview results seems useful to show practical evidence of existing gender asymmetry. The sample of present study is limited, but is representative in Perm region. Practically, the raised gender issue can be scientifically interesting from the viewpoint of various scholars investigating corporate culture, leadership and motivational theories in national scale. 