Introduction
Background. Despite playing a vital role in the ability of corporations to attract capital and to create positive reputation the concept of investor relations (IR) has little attention in scholarly research. Moreover, there is numerous blank spot in the analysis of IR-professionals’ tools. One of such tools is called roadshow and it is generally considered one of the best types of interaction with investor. 
Theorists currently register the problem of inadequate logistical planning in the process of organization of these events and hold quite various doctrines about the role of logistics in roadshows. Some scholars focus their attention on the issue of outsourcing and insoursing, while others try to design a full operational IR-model of roadshows. And although several models were developed, the combination of operations management and event logistics approach is needed to create the one universal scheme of roadshow organization.

Problem Statement. The investment roadshow is extremely complex event, as a lot of things need to be kept under control. The overall goal of my project will be an attempt to design the operational IR-model based on the study of practical IR-cases. Thus, according to this broad purpose and to the above-mentioned research gaps, the following questions will be addressed: 
What are the most important factors which influence the type of operational model?
What is the operational-IR model, and in what way is it appropriate to design such roadshow staging model?
How to define a scope of operations within the process of organization of roadshow?
What are the most challenging parts of roadshow for IR-professionals and event-managers?
How do investor relations professionals decide whether or not to outsource logistics activities?

Delimitations of the Study. The study findings will be severely limited in the amount of information to be collected. Today there are no comprehensive researches into roadshows. Moreover, the literature analysis clearly shows that a study to design the logistics operations for events such as roadshow is missing. To handle this limitation my research will be base on data from “IR magazine Russia” and “IR-CIS”. It reflects the most relevant information and, hence, can be the foundation for the case-study research by analyzing articles and practical cases from these main journals in the field. 

Professional Significance. Considering road-show in the context of logistics, it seems worthwhile to design the operational IR-model that will be advanced tool of organization of these special investment events. First of all it will give a broader theoretical basis to the research as well as solve make-or-buy problem.
Moreover, the study has great practical significance, the advanced IR-model will help investor relations officers (IROs) and event-managers to organize more efficient roadshow with the least costs and at the same time CEO/CFO can fully control the whole process of management.

Definitions of Key Terms. Road-show refers to the special investment events, when company travels around the country to give presentations to analysts, fund managers and potential investors (Anne Guimard, 2009). 

Literature Review
A large body of literature on operations and event-logistics management provides a basis for the present study. The theoretical review includes an explanation of the three key concepts:  operational model, investor relations (IR) and event-logistics. This part of the project proposal will describe both the theoretical and empirical studies in the field of research.
The operations management (OM) has developed as an academic discipline in the last 30 years. During this time, some theories have been advanced among researchers to explain aspects of OM. Theories from other disciplines such as economics, psychology, and sociology have had great impact on further understanding of operations management. 
Nowadays there are many different approaches to definition of operations management. Richard Chase and his colleague (1998) considered operations management as “the design, operation, and improvement of the systems that create and deliver the firm’s primary products and services”.  The essence line of their study is that all organizations have operations functions that are simply called “operations” and all aspect of business revolves around them.  This concept shows that all organizational activities are really complex and include a lot of actions and operations.
Carroll (1979) suggested an idea that companies need to seek methods and tools that help them to clarify their operating management system and make their business processes more evident and standardized. He and his advocates believed that it reduce time and costs. Therefore, many researchers have been interested in the design of operational models which help to control business operations in terms of efficiency.
Generally, operational model is an abstract and ideal representation of how the different business processes have been structured. Christopher, Raphael and Lorenzo (2011) studied the use of the term operational model and concluded that it has been first used to describe the organizational structure of business divisions and required level of integration across these divisions. Although Christopher et al. did not focus on empirical research concerned with operations management; they explored the main issues that have great impact on the research in this field. Aptue (2007) suggested that it can also be used at a much more micro level to describe how a department works or how a single business operation operates. However, the principle of the design of operational models needs to be further analyzed in greater detail.
Scholars widely debates on practical models and methods for the design and control of complex operations management system. There are different approaches to defining the elements that compose an operating model. Stock and Lambert (2001) explored the issue through the production system with high level of standardization and integration. From their point of view, the operational models involve people, process and technology. The authors observed how these elements traditionally relate to each other and recommended a form of organizational design to improve the performance within the operational model. Advocates of their theory acknowledge its decisive consequences for development an operational model. 
However, such approach to the design operational model seems to be quite limited and overlooked a number of minor details. So, Andrew Campbell from Ashridge Business School referred to more complex approach which consisted of five elements: (1) process, (2) information systems, (3) locations and buildings, (4) organization and people, and (5) transport and logistics (Campbell, 2005). In this context business process has been divided into five groups according to their supporting functions. This approach seems to be the most approrite for the design a full-operational model.
At the same time, type of model depends on business profile and scope of activity. According to Carroll (1979), business dimensions affect the way of expending the work. Before to create operational pattern analyst should to define the scope of work that need to be done, as it shows the different operations and indicates how they are linked together or need to be kept separate. Therefore, it is worthwhile to narrow the focus of investigation of operational model and chose the only one business dimensions(Campbell, 2005).
In the field of investor relations, operational IR-model will depend on the most important Investor Relations Officers (IRO) functions. Through analysis, Rao and Sivakumar (1999) described the IR as “the link between a company and the investor community, providing information to help that community and the investing public evaluate a company”. From their point of view communication is one of the most important functions of IR. Similarly, Regester (1990) suggested that investor relations has strategic importance as it help to reduce the information asymmetries and (re)build investor confidence. Hence, it is important to organize their activity in the most efficient way. 
Clarke and Murray (2000) noted that to build strong relationships with investor, IRO should annually organize special financial event – roadshows, as it is the best types of interaction with investor. Tuominen (1997) proposed that investor relations professionals face complex decisions on selecting an organizational design for their activities. With rare exceptions (Rao and Sivakumar, 1999; Tuominen, 1997; Clarke and Murray, 2000) few management scholars have been able to conduct empirical research into the investor relations, and especially into the process of organization of roadshows. However, according to Marston (2001), one of the possible ways to research in the problem area is to design operational IR-model.
Marston (2001) investigated  roadshows in the context of event management and  registered  the problem of inadequate logistical planning. He stated that there are a number of special problems in terms of logistics management and emphasized three main reasons for it: (1) the combination of heavy flows of attendants and staff at one or several venues; (2) strong time and space concentration of logistics flows; (3) non-repetitive type of operations. Unfortunately, he has not given solutions of these problems in his article.
Hence, it needs to direct attention to logistical problems within events-management. Here William’s approach has had important influence on studying event-logistics (William, 2000). He outlined the need for a systematized methodology for the planning and controling of events. William defined this concept in the context of logistical planning and highlighted the different logistics operation which usually should be undertaken in order to stage “mega-events”. 
Mair Judith and Whitford Michelle (2013) identified and examined current trends in the event-logistics research and contributed to the body of event management knowledge by using the opinions of experts. Through analysis, the authors described the current and future issues of outsourcing and insoursing. They also represented a comprehensive overview of existing empirical studies, providing basic information for further researchers in the field. Similarly, Argan and Köse (2012) introduced research on event management dimensions and named the operations which are commonly going to outsourcing. It should be noticed, that they also have designed the operational model, but for sport events. 
Although both operations management and event-logistics have been studied in the past, research combining these two areas is scarce. Moreover, the literature seems to be wanting of contributions focused on the design of logistics operations for roadshows from event management point of view. Thus, recent interest amongst scholars has begun to focus on managing operations through enhanced investor communication. The new current trend reflects significant consequences for linking together the study of operations management an event-logistic.

Methods
This section of research proposal describes the methods and procedures that are going to be used in carrying out the study. In my research the main results will be gained by the deployment of qualitative methods. In fact, a qualitative research methodology can be particularly appropriate during the investigation of contemporary phenomenon within its real-life context “when the framework of phenomenon and context are not clearly evident” (Yin, 1994, p. 23).
First step in my research is to collect information and accomplish the revision of current trends with the help of conducting a literature review and using the methods of case-study. Reviewing the existent literature will be necessary for definition of operational model and for choosing the best type of structure of roadshow operational model.  A technique of case-study will be employed to analyze a roadshow through the event-management and operations management perspectives within real business situations. 
Then the semi-structured interviews are going to be conducted with experts who work on the market of event-logistics services and with IR-professionals. The interview questionnaire will be developed on the basis of the reviewed literature, and it will help in gathering all the relevant data from this major informants. Moreover, the expert view will use for understanding the decision-making process related to definition of outsourcing degree.
So, data in the study will be collected from primary (personal interviewing) and secondary sources (cases, literature review).It is should be noticed that there is a great variety of different approaches to analyzing key features of event-logistics, and so the methodology will take a definite shape only when the study is progressing. 

Results Anticipated
Speaking about the future findings of my study it should be reminded that I will intend to design the operational IR-model. It is suggested that through the combination of operations management and event-logistics approaches I will define and describe theoretical concepts, and then I can to create the operational-IR model for organization of roadshows. As operational model imply an ideal representation, the main anticipated results will be demonstrated using a graphic methods. 
Moreover, the study will have some major theoretical and practical implications, as it will provide an answer to the questions of outsoursing and its efficiency. Also operational model will help to the planning and cooperation the complex operations connected with the roadshows events, with the aim to improve the timing, accuracy and quality of information flows.
The presentation of the all results will use an appropriate pattern in order to implications will be described accurately and objectively.

Conclusion
It appears from what has been discussed that serious attention should be paid to the operating functions of Investor Relations professionals in the process of organization of roadshow. The baseline results of my investigation will indicate that the roadshows planning include a wide range of activities, particularly from the field of logistics. So, after the problem of logistical planning will be subjected to scrutiny, I could accomplish the revision of current organizational process of roadshow and design operational IR-model of this financial event. And although my findings are generally in line with the current approaches in this field, I will attract new information and use methods of case-study that allow me to design the full IR-model. So, I believe that the approach employed could become preferring for answering to the main business question when it is better use outsourcing and when insourcing. 