Introduction
The background of the study. Marketing activity is an indispensable part of every modern and successful catering establishment. It let small businesses survive in context of a market recession and adapt for any kind of collapse in the environmental conditions. Furthermore, the necessity of applying marketing instruments is increasing in context of negative conjecture of Russia's economy: grocery embargo introduction and growth of exchange rate have an adverse effect on Russian catering industry turnover. 
Some catering sectors (restaurants, bars – e.g.) experienced a significant reduction in attendance in 2014 after a ban on smoking in public areas was introduced. Because of food embargo, Russian restaurants suffered 20% turnover decrease by 2015. As a result, many fine dining restaurants recourse to radical changes, fundamentally altering their own conception, format and cuisine.
Despite the decrease in disposable population income, some optimism is still preserved in fast-food sector/industry, especially in chain restaurants. According to the reports of company NPD, attendance rate of fast-food restaurants that used promo applications was not only kept at the same level but even increased by 10% between the first quarters of 2014 and 2015 . Besides, it should be noted that fast-food has become somewhat the vanguard of development and the main stimulus for Russian chain restaurant market: correlation of established fast-food restaurants and the new restaurants number in general can serve as evidence to it. During the period from April 2013 to March 2014 this ratio comes to 47,5% (727 new fast-food restaurants to 1500 in total) being a natural  phenomenon since the decrease in population income triggers tendency to rationalization among people involving going out to eat . Steady growth of attendance rates of chain fast-food restaurants encourage entrepreneurs who count on franchising these businesses. As for old players, the necessity of proper marketing plan developing comes with the understanding of its key role among chain restaurants. 

The problem statement of the study. Based on current conditions in catering industry, marketing planning is a key stage in business planning which has become a significant side of a problem that should become a topic of theoretical concentration. Rebranding and conception shifting of well-established restaurants are also accompanied by update of the marketing plan providing research with relevance not only for entrepreneurs who are planning to run new businesses, but also for experienced restaurant keepers. The hypothesis of the research can be stated in the following way: in context of market recession, an increased attention to marketing planning is one of the crucial requirements to ensure improvement of financial index numbers of catering establishments. 
The objective of the research is to develop a marketing plan for a specific fast-food establishment. Achievement of the objective will result in accomplishment of the following tasks: 
Explanation of what marketing planning is;
Current marketing planning algorithms review;
Intercomparison of Russian and foreign approaches to marketing planning;
Revealing of peculiarities concerned with marketing planning in the specific field;
Competitiveness analysis of an enterprise given - Porter five forces analysis;
Working out measures in accordance with specified requirements.

The professional significance of the study. Practical significance of the research is determined by demand in creating a marketing planning algorithm, which can be applied in setting up and relaunching business projects in catering industry. Investigation of this problem can be relevant for both first-time entrepreneurs and experienced players in the studied sphere.

Literature review
Marketing planning is a systematic process involving assessing marketing opportunities and resources, determining marketing objectives and developing a plan for implementation and control .
The aims of good marketing planning echo much of best marketing practice:
Serving the best target customers;
Beating the competition;
Using resources to best advantage;
Having a clear plan of action and operational controls;
Keeping abreast of market developments;
Recognizing the organization’s strengths and weaknesses;
Maximizing returns for the organization;
Minimizing threats.
The marketing plan is the written document or blueprint for implementing and controlling an organization’s marketing activities related to a particular marketing strategy. What are the main functions of marketing plan?
It offers a “road map” for implementing a business’s strategies and achieving it objectives;
It accompanies management in controlling and monitoring the implementation of strategy;
It informs new participants of the business’s plan, their functional and responsibilities;
It specifies how to (re)allocate resources rationally;
It sets roles, tasks and timing;
It makes participants aware of deficiencies, problems and threats.
The planning of marketing lies in the careful analysis and answers to categories of questions. While some authors rely on SWOT analysis, others prefer to use another tools for analyzing an external environment. One of those is SPECTACLES-analysis . It consists of answering the following questions:
S – social. What is happening in the society containing current and potential markets that may present opportunities and threats to the organization’s products/services? 
P – political. Are there political implications that need to be taken into account when planning marketing?
E – economic. What is happening in the economies of the markets served by the organization?
C – cultural. Does the manner of offering correspond to the cultural norms?
T – technological. How can new technologies aid the promotion and delivery of products/services?
Aesthetic. How have these been considered in respect of current and future customer groups?
C – Customers. Are they becoming more demanding?
L – legal. Is there any legislative action proposed in any of the organization’s markets that will have an impact?
E – environmental. What opportunities are there for the organization in this area?
S – sectoral. The analysis provides the external framework within which the marketing plans may be formulated. The regional or sectoral competitors need to be taken into account.
Many organizations update their marketing plans annually, presenting the key recommendations to all senior managers. Most commonly, there is a three-year timeframe to the proposed marketing plan :
Development/revision of marketing objectives relative to performance;
Assessment of marketing opportunities and resources;
Revision/formulation of marketing strategy;
Development/revision of the plan for implementation and control;
Implementation of marketing plan;
Return to point 1.

Methodology
Within the research, there should be some methods and tools to solve the main tasks. This part of the proposal will focus attention on the instruments and procedures used in data collection.
As long as there is a need to plan any kinds of marketing efforts, the most vital is to get information about the current enterprise environment and analyze the level of competition within an line-of-business industry level. Due to this fact, Porter’s five forces analysis and SWOT analysis are going to be performed. Considering the necessity of analysis given above, such qualitative methods as documentation analysis and observation are to be launched.
By using Porter’s five forces analyses the current situation at the object’s environment can be identified whereas SWOT analysis harmonically complements it by focusing on the firm’s internal factors. Analysis of documentation gives relevant information about the enterprise being investigated, while observation allows exposing the bargaining power of customer. It also helps to produce realistic and meaningful recommendations.

The results anticipated
The following part of the proposal reports on the results, which are planned to be achieved with the methods and instruments, mentioned earlier. The findings of this study will establish a model for marketing plan development in frameworks of catering industry. The project will have some theoretical implications, which could interest entrepreneurs who are interested in entering to the catering market, particularly fast-food or chain restaurant. The testing of the hypotheses will be based on the data obtained during several months after the updated marketing plan is released and implemented. Even if the hypothesis is proved, a single project cannot provide a sound basis for generalization, especially when it’s a question of such multifaceted industry as Russian catering. This study would reveal that additional research seems needed on the problem in question, desirable that the investigated object will belong to another segment (casual dining – e.g.). 
By accomplishing the research project it would be extremely interesting to use the experience obtained in personal goals – developing own business project in catering industry, for example. In addition, it could be highly pleasant to look after the enterprise if the marketing plan is approved and implemented during the practice.

                                                                          
