Introduction
The first part of the research proposal covers the research relevance, states the problem, describes some limitations and determines the professional significance of the study.

Background of the study. Absolute majority of modern organization operating in market conditions objectively require qualified personnel. Therefore, it becomes essential to build strong HR-brand for catching talented applicants. According to the theory of Keller (2003) HR-brand “can be understood as a bundle of benefits with specific, at the same time long term differentiating characteristics”. It is beneficial for both organizations and employees, and not only from the economic perspective: professional personnel also define a "brand" of the organization, which largely shapes its image and finally determines the success of its activities and the competitiveness on the market. While the hospitality industry tend to shift from a short-term to a long-term employer branding focus, it becomes necessary to think strategically and widely concerning establishing the reputation not only on the product and service market, but the labour market. 

Problem statement. Despite the increase in the popularity of the HR-branding among Russian companies, there are a few academic research devoted the problem of the HR-brand forming and developing. Thus, the urgency of this research is in the insufficient amount of the theoretical base and practice related to the HR-branding problem in Russian companies, especially working in a hospitality industry.
Based on the above mentioned, the overall goal of the research will be lay in the scientifically elaboration of the HR-brand model of the hotel through the understanding employer preference and employee motivation. Hence, the research question can be formulated as “How to attract and retain talented and qualified personnel?” 
To solve this problem and answer the question the tasks can be formulated as following:
To examine company perception by existing and potential employee, their preferences and motivation;
To identify company’s image among competitors; 
To determine factors influencing the organizational performance;
To prepare some measures that company should undertake to improve the image.

Delimitations of the study. The study findings will be mostly restricted by the scope of the application and the data collection process. The sample will include only limited amount of particular current and previous employees of the observed company and hotel’s guests. This fact will not allow applying the results to all hotels and any other companies. Moreover, it can lead to a distortion of the results owing to the personnel’s fear of frankly and honestly answering. Another limitation will be in the fact that the study is restricted to Perm and Perm region; hence, the data cannot be representative of a wider population. 
Professional significance. The forming HR-brand is a crucial process in a hospitality industry, because the work mainly based on using human factor and final the results of operations are precisely consisted in the staff good coordinated work. Therefore, the recommendations, which are based on the results, will help the hotel and other companies working in the similar areas fully understand the criteria of choosing the hotel. It is also will show the company its advantages, which should be emphasized and tools, which should be applied to make the company more attractive for the employees. 

Literature review
The basis for this research is provided by a large body of literatures described theoretical approaches and models of the establishing HR-brand and explained its practical significance. Before it will be reviewed in this proposal, it is necessary to give the definition of the HR-branding to avoid misunderstandings and sort out the nature of this process.
Despite the term “branding” are commonly used in marketing field when firms put their efforts to create and developing product brands, the research will be considered this process in the field of human resource framework. Previous studies on branding underestimated a HR component in the forming process of the favorable company image. However, company brand as producer may somewhat differ from the company brand as an employer. 
Initially, HR-branding as an independent activity in the field of human resource management, aimed at the company's attractiveness as an employer, was exposed to conscious scrutiny by foreign researchers. They are subsequently developed the concept of HR-brand by highlighting its main elements and tools.
The first studies in the field of employer branding emerged in the middle of 1990s in Great Britain. The founders of employer brand management were T.Ambler, S. Barrow, R. Mosley. They were the first, who put forward the concept of "employer brand" in relation to the human resource management, in 1996 in their article (Ambler, Barrow, 1996). According to them, the employer brand is a “set of functional, economic and psychological benefits provided by the company's management, and identified with the company-employer” (Barrow, Mosley, 2006)
A deeper analysis of the literature suggests that there is no single definition allowed to reveal some others following definitions of HR-brand:
“the process of building a recognizable and unique the identity of the employer ... the concept of allowing the company differentiate itself from its competitors” (Backhouse, Tikoo, 2004);
“a targeted, long-term strategy to manage the awareness and perceptions of employees, potential employees, and related stakeholders with regards to a particular firm” (Sullivan J., 2004);
 “the image of an organization as a “great place to work” in the mind of current employees and key stakeholders in the external market (active and passive candidates, clients, customers and other key stakeholders” (Minchington, 2006).
The interest to this topic in Russia has arisen in the second half of the 2000s, when there was an increase in the research interest to the employer brand per se. Native authors explains this popularity by the profound shift of the market from “employer market” to the “employee market”. Since then, some publications devoted to the feasibility and the practical application of the employer brand in Russia have gained a widespread appeal. Among the most active authors in the field of HR-brand are Brukovskaya O. Osovitskaya N. Mansurov R.E. and others (Brukovskaya, Osovitskaya, 2011; Mansurov, 2011).
The discussion of HR-brand importance among many scholars proves that companies with the strong HR-brand receive some benefits or competitive advantages, which can be summarised as follows: 
Reducing costs associated with recruiting and hiring staff 
Improvement of the employment relationship, customer satisfaction and loyalty 
Increased staff retention and motivation, reducing staff turnover 
Stability during economic downturns;
Getting more initiative, creative and innovative employees, improving labor productivity (Barrow, Mosley, 2006; Berthon, Ewing, & Hah, 2005; Knox, Freeman, 2006; Backhaus, Tikoo, 2004).
A focus on external image of the organization only does not provide a sufficient explanation what the company really offers. Better results can be attained by accurately observing both external and internal image of the company and factors that influences the HR-brand building.
Formation of external HR-image is aimed at potential workers as well as partners, competitors and the mass media, so that it becomes essential to perform all the following steps for establishing the external communications:
Identify the needs and expectations of the target audience (existing and potential employees) and their level of compliance with the company
Effectively and powerfully inform the target audience about the company
Constantly and steadily work on the components of the strong HR-brand: a worthy compensation package, transparent motivation system; corporate culture, proper programs of adaptation, training and development of staff
Nowadays, there have been already developed Employer Brand Predictive Model (appendix A) to attract and retain talents (Botha A., Bussin M., Swardt L., 2011). This model includes 6 components or blocks among these are:
Target audience needs 
EVP Differentiation
Personnel Management Strategy
Brand consistency
HR-brand Communication 
HR-brand metrics 
This model fully describes each component and their impact to HR-brand; hence, allows the comprehensive analysis of the factors that may affect the formation and perception of the employer brand. Moreover, the model could direct HR-managers to attract and retain personnel more effectively that could eventually affect overall company performance. However, this model does not pay much attention to the factors that occur as a result of information technologies developing. These are internal corporate social networks, Intenet, the ratings of employers etc.
There are many employer branding factors which significantly affect the mindset of potential employees in selecting their prospective workplace. Therefore, building the HR-brand model helps employers to properly determine those factors which in turn would also help in attracting and retaining talents.

Methodology
In this section of the proposal I would like to examine in some detail the methods and procedures I will intend to conduct in order to reach the purpose of my study.
There are various approaches and models to analyze components forming the HR-brand, internal and external factors influencing company’s perception. In my research I am going to build the unique HR-brand model of the hotel. For this reason I will perform an internal survey which will be addressed the actual and previous workers. This survey will be aimed to collect the employee opinions about how the elements or factors of the proposed model can influence the perception of hotel’s reputation regarding a working place. The questions will touch on all areas of employees from salary satisfaction, career prospects, communication system, and corporate culture to the perceptions of the external company image on market.
This method helps to investigate reasons of staff turnover and allows decisions on how to improve existing image in order to held actual employees and attract new more qualified people to the company. It also allows working out and giving practical recommendations on how to reduce costs and achieve high productivity.
To look at the problem more deeply and to better understand the causal relations between the various factors of the model and to create own proper scientific research model, I intend to conduct two interviews with the general manager and the owner of the hotel. These qualitative interviews will be conducted to better identify the current goals and the impact of the HR-branding on the organizational performance specifically focusing on the factors of attractiveness. Moreover, personal interviews can provide more flexibility and opportunity to obtain individual feedback. However, it will simultaneously lead to the limitations in comparability, because it is more time-consuming and planning-intensive than standardized, written questionnaires (Kotler P. & Bliemel F., 1999).
To obtain more specific information on organizational structure and to develop improvement HR-brand measures I will observe constitutive documents.

Results anticipated
The following part of the proposal represents the results obtained using the methods mentioned. The data gathered from the survey help to identify key factors, determining the company as a successful employer and create a proper unique HR-brand model of the hotel. More than that, it might be useful for the company, because it can objectively show its strength and weakness from an impersonal point of view. All the other results, getting from the interviews will be also useful in order to understand which factors are important for the managers and how they are correlated with opinions of the employees. Taking it into account, company will realise, which directions should adhere, to become more attractive and competitive at both external and internal labour market.
The findings will have a great relevance for HR-managers in the recruitment, adaptation, estimation process and the developing of personnel strategy in a whole. The information concerning factors such as working conditions, autonomy, salary satisfaction etc. will ensure a huge variety of work for HR-managers. They will be able to elaborate some programs that are responsible for increasing motivation, and to create or change the reward system of the organization which plays a significant role in attracting prospective employees. 

Conclusion
In the last part of the proposal I would like to briefly highlight the main ideas of the research. As it was mentioned in the first part, the study will examine in detailed various approaches, models and problems concerning the process of forming HR-brand. Finally, based on the results anticipated, the research will suggest the specifically developed HR-brand model for the hotel studied. The issues posed become essential for understanding which factors help hotel to save already existing employees, attract new qualified personnel and reduce company’s costs. Limitations of this study that are tied up with the data collection process can be considered as prospects for future development. It would be preciously for further research to use other narrowly focusing samples, such as inexperienced job seekers or those who are willing to work in this particular studied organization. As HR-branding is such complicated process it would be necessary for future research to explore the influence of other factors, which have not yet been subjected to detailed analysis in this study, in order to understand it more fully and get broader overview.
Many companies can borrow ideas presented in the research regarding concrete steps on developing and building their own employer branding strategies. Moreover, it would be practically interesting to build a promotion strategy of the company taking into consideration the results of the study and the factors influencing the corporate brand.