The influence of the dominant party in the successful functioning of democracy has long been a matter of concern among political scientists. Since the inception of the ruling party "United Russia" which political scientists regard as the dominant party, transformation of the Russian party system demonstrates the downward trend of party competition. "Ideological flexibility, access to administrative resources, and ability to mobilize the key socio-economic groups are the main characteristics associated with the dominant party system" (D.White, 2011, p.655). In this type of the regime, the opposition parties are too weak and ineffective to challenge the authorities. The ancestor of the research of political regimes Barbara Geddes emphasized that the non-democratic party modes are the most stable among all systems. 
     
In a situation where one party dominates the political field and the other parties are deprived of the voting right, there are problems associated with ignoring public opinion, decline of the responsibility for the actions of government and transformation of democratic institutions to the authoritarian ruling party leverage.
     
Regionally, the effects of the dominant party are widely studied, but the elections at the municipal level have their own specific features. There are two views on holding municipal elections. It is believed such elections have a higher competitiveness and so a low level of fraud, hence, the low level of the dominance of the "United Russia". On the other hand, these elections are less controlled, so there is a possibility of the ruling party to rig the results. Therefore, it is important to understand whether the "United Russia" is seeking to strengthen its dominance and what factors contribute to its strengthening.
Problem statement.
     
The research is based on the assumption that the dominance of the "United Russia" is affected by various social and economic factors.
     
The purpose of the work is to build a model to identify the factors which influenced the level of the "United Russia" dominance in the municipal elections. 
     
In compliance with the aim it is necessary to conceptualize the basic approaches and studies of dominant party systems and to reveal the variables which affected the level of the dominance of "United Russia".

The research deals with the issue of one-party rule which is associated with the concept of the dominant party and how the Russian case reflects the features of this phenomenon.  This study is accompanied by the analysis of factors which influenced the ruling party dominance.
     
Recently political researchers have paid a lot of attention to the institutional variation among non-democratic modes. They can be divided into two main groups depending on the approach in which they operate. Supporters of the voluntaristic approach (B. Geddes, B. Magaloni, A. Przeworski, Gandi and others) studied the classification of non-democratic regimes, adaptation of parties and candidates to the electoral institutes and the obstacles that the opposition parties face in dominant party regime. Researchers within the historical institutionalism (J.Brownlee, B.Smith, Ch.Tilly, A.Kynev) focus on dynamics, evolution or collapse of the one-party regime. But the most interesting issue that concerns the researches of both approaches is why one-party regimes remain the most stable and durable of all authoritarian political structures. 
     
One of the first political scientists, who created a typology of non-democratic regimes, was B. Geddes. She stands out personalistic regimes, one-party regimes and military regimes, and each of them has its own characteristics and duration. However, the greatest interest to us is the single-party regime, which the authors identify with the dominant party regime. "In the ideal-type single-party regime, a party organization exercises some power over the leader at least part of the time, controls the career paths of officials, organizes the distribution of benefits to supporters, and mobilizes citizens to vote" (Geddes, 1999, p.124) . B. Geddes argues that "the most stable among all the modes are exactly single-party regimes (25 years), as well as mixed modes with the elements of military rule, one-party system and personalism, the length of which is an average of 23-30 years" (Panov, 2012, p.7).
     
B. Magaloni is not less significant figure in the study of non-democratic regimes. One of her well known works is the article "Voting for autocracy hegemonic party survival and its demise in Mexico" in which she analyzes the reasons for long-lasting stay of the Institutional Revolutionary Party in power. Moreover, the researcher formulated a hypothesis, which is the most useful in our study. She suggested that "the higher the growth rate during the election year, the higher the incumbent’s chances of winning and, conversely, the more severe the economic recession, the more likely the incumbent will lose" (Magaloni, 2006, p.26).
     
A. Przeworski and John. Gandhi in their famous work "Authoritarian Institutions and the Survival of Autocrats", unlike previous political scientists pay more attention to the democratic institutions that are necessary to the authoritarian rulers to maintain their power. Long term being at power of some dictators can be explained due to their overwhelming monopoly on force. Dictators may use force to ensure cooperation and to eliminate the threat of rebellion. "But the use of force is costly and may not always be effective" (Przeworski,Gandhi, 2007, p.1281). So autocrats should use other levers of influence on society, such as "democratic" institutions (parliament, elections) to strengthen their power.
     
David White, an American political scientist, focuses on how actors operate within the dominant party system in Russia, studying its characteristics and the reasons why Russia is not a democracy. The author concludes that a long-term isolation of opposition parties, however, remains a key impediment to democratic consolidation in Russia. Organized political opposition in Russia is in crisis, unable to challenge the main party of power, "United Russia". He believes that the protest activity is low and the inability of the parties to resist the regime increases the chances of the "United Russia" for re-election.
     
B. Smith in his work "Life of the party: The origins of regime breakdown and persistence under single-party rule" mostly focuses on the evolution of the one-party regime, on the reasons that contribute to the durability of the regime and claims that there is little work, aimed at how the origin of the modes generates long-term prospects for their survival. He hypothesized on how the ruling party strengthens its power, "if rulers face a strong opposition, the only option is to make significant concessions to them in return for their support…they can buy a coalition through the distribution of rents" (B. Smith, 2004, p.5).
     
Russian researchers A. Lyubarev, A. Buzin and A. Kynev in the book "Dead Souls: Methods of Falsifications of Electoral Results and the Struggle Against Them" describe possible ways of manipulating the elections in Russia, and give examples. One of the common ways to manipulate the elections the authors called the portable ballot boxes. They describe the situation where "the lists of citizens who need a portable ballot box to vote centrally prepared by employees of social services, and they served them in the precinct commissions, not interested in the citizens themselves, whether they are going to vote" (Lyubarev, Buzin, Kynev, 2007). This violates the principle of voluntary participation of citizens in elections.
     
Thus, on the basis of theoretical studies of the dominant party, the research hypotheses were formulated: 
1. The lower the turnout, the higher the level of dominance of "United Russia"
2.  The higher the level of economic development, the higher the level of dominance of "United Russia"
3.  The lower the level of protest activity, the higher the level of dominance of "United Russia"
4.  The higher the level of electoral fraud, the higher the level of dominance of "United Russia"

The statistical method of analyzing data and the method of content analysis will be used for the study to check the hypotheses and to consider main theories of dominant party systems. 
     
First of all it is necessary to select 150 cases in Russian municipal elections using the software for statistical data processing (SPSS) with the help of the website of the central electoral commission in Russia. SPSS is a program which allows revealing correlation between dependent and independent variables. Due to this program the percent of votes given for the candidates from the "United Russia" can be counted. Moreover it can be revealed the interrelation between the amount of votes given for "United Russia" and variables that were listed above.
     
The content analysis method is used to convert text information into quantitative indicators. The method employed focuses on an in-depth study of meaningful text material. In the analysis of data by such method measurement accuracy is important. In this research conventional content analysis has been chosen in order to derive coding categories from the text data. It is relevant to reveal certain schemes in dividing researches into different approaches, to analyze the works which are focused on the features of dominating parties in the world and particularly in Russia. 

On the basis of analyzing main approaches of dominant party systems we will test our hypotheses and conclude about how the "United Russia" strengthens its dominance in municipal elections.
     
We can assume what outcomes we will get in our work according to the previous research. First of all, the assumption about the interrelation between the turnout and the level of dominance of "United Russia" may be confirmed, because the dependence of these variables was acknowledged in previous studies. So with the decrease of turnout the ruling party increases its votes. 
     
The second hypothesis about economic development should be refuted vice versa according to the last work. There will be no dependence between the level of economic growth and amounts of votes for "United Russia".
     
The third and the forth hypotheses can be confirmed too. Moreover their connection should be stronger than with the turnout.
     
On the basis of the results we can summarize all the information.

     
In this work the basic approaches of studying dominant party systems were considered and on the basis of theoretical studies the research hypotheses were formulated. The study marked the independent variables, which, in our opinion, affect the distribution of votes in favor of the "United Russia". For the analysis the number of votes for the "United Russia" has been used as the dependent variable. The relationship between the dependent variable and different predictors were tested, namely the turnout, the level of protest activity, the level of electoral fraud, and the level of economic development.
     
We assume that the level of dominance of the "United Russia" is influenced by such independent variables as: voter turnout, the level of protest activity and the level of electoral fraud. 
     
First of all, it should be noted that the assumption about the fact that the low turnout in the municipal elections increases the votes for "United Russia" as we claimed before can be confirmed. This means that it is easier to falsify results if there is low turnout in polling station.
      
The level of protest activity has a negative impact on the proportion of votes for the ruling party, as evidenced by data collected in the previous research and it can be said that those Russian opposition politicians who advocate protest vote are right in regard to its impact on the number of votes for the ruling party.
The analysis of the dependent variable level of electoral fraud and share of the vote for the "United Russia" should revealed directly proportional interrelation, which confirms the theoretical agenda of massive fraud in the elections in the works of A. Kynev, A. Lyubarev and A. Buzin. A number of people voting early or at home grow every year that contributes to the massive fraud in the elections.
     
The level of economic development may not be related to the level of dominance of "United Russia", which means that, economic situation of the population in Russia does not affect the electoral behavior, which denies the suggestion put forward by B. Magaloni. 
     
Thus, we concluded that the results help to explain what variables allow the "United Russia" winning the election in most municipalities. Providing low election turnout, the high number of ballots in mobile ballot boxes, reducing the level of protest activity to a minimum, "United Russia" has strengthened its dominance at the municipal elections.