«Media makes political views, interests and preferences of the audience» (Cliff's). Media is the main intermediary between the authorities and society. In democracy the mass media are the central stage on which the action takes place publicly. The media should provide cultural and political minorities with a chance to speak, and thus influence public opinion. «The existence of such a possibility provides and demonstrates the ideological and social pluralism, and lies at the heart of democracy» (Project Democracy).
     
In a federal state inevitably occurs separation media at the federal and regional levels. According to Korochensky A.S., research and statistics clearly confirm the increase in the share of regional periodicals in the general structure of the Russian press, the growing influence of local media on public relations in cities and regions. Considering the local print and electronic media as an important information resource, that allows greatly influence development of society at the local level, these opportunities are associated primarily with satisfaction and formation of information needs of the people (Korochensky, 2006, p. 367). 
     
The relevance of the study is that with the help of the media the citizens forms a certain image of what is happening in the country or region; they affect the relationship between government and society. In the field of mass media can be traced obvious influence of political elites on the context of the source. Due to the political elites the media paints an image of candidates before the election, manipulates people's minds, providing false, but right information for them. This is done through the financial media and pressure on them that contributes to disappearance of the freedom of expression as a fundamental principle of democracy.
     
The main problem of this study is the view that the rules, which federal law established, govern the conduct of electronic trading and create sufficient conditions for equal access of all media to government funding. It contributes to the development of free competition. But on the other hand, it is believed that the electronic trading system, creating restrictions for participants, at the same time allows shaping patron-client’s relationship between the regional authorities and the media. Therefore, the formation of such a relationship creates unequal conditions and contributes to lack of competition.
     
Thus, the main purpose of this research is study the features of interaction of regional and local authorities and the media in the Perm region. To achieve this goal it was necessary to solve a number of specific tasks:
1. Conceptualize the basic approaches and studies of the interaction of media and regional and municipal authorities;
2. To analyze the strategies of media representatives of communities in cooperation with local and regional authorities of Perm region.
     
Thus, the key research questions can be formulated the following way: What tools do authorities use for influence to mass media? How strong does media depends on authority’s funding support?
Literature Review
The principles of democracy
     
The media play an important role in the formation of a healthy democracy (Page, 1996, p. 21). Democracy involves a series of measures required in the selection of political elites. The success of any democratic society is directly in the free flow of ideas and exchange of views (Page, 1996, p. 21). Thus, in this study the works of foreign researchers on democracy R. Putnam and R. Dahl. In his study, «Making Democracy Work» Putnam describes the development of the north and lagging of the south of Italy. In the second case, Putnam comes to patron-client relations between the government and citizens, which allows us to project the situation on the Russian regional media market, which we later found the same relationship between the regional authorities and the media in the Perm region. Dahl in «Democracy» considers polyarchy. One sign of the stability of the system is the political participation of citizens, which may be provided by the freedom of speech and expression. In order to obtain an informed knowledge of all actions taken by the government to understand what will be policies, citizens should be able to express their views (Putnam, 1993, p. 275). Thus, we made the assumption that there is no freedom of speech in Russia and in the regions.
    
Political communication and their implementation in the media are of interest to researchers, both abroad and in Russia. Interpretation of the concept of «communication» was offered W. Lippmann, H. Laswell, P. Lazarsfeld, B. Berelson, R. Merton. They identified the factors influencing the perception of the audience information about political subjects in a particular key. Most of the studies contain findings of applied research: the authors stated multifactor functioning of the media in political communication. Next, we used works and articles by Russian authors, who reveal the peculiarities of the media in Russian regions. It is articles such authors as A.P. Korochensky and S.S. Khaltanova. 
     
At the turn of XX - XXI century’s concept of the media as a «fourth power» spread in Russia: political scientists, philosophers, media theorists and practitioners addressed to this issue (E. Prokhorov, S. Korkonosenko, B. Sidorov, etc.). It puts a question whether journalism can initiate reforms of the political system as a whole. I. Zassoursky turned his attention to the fact that modern politics and the media are in mutual influence each other: politics becomes dependent on the media, and the press - politicized. He considered the question of the existence of media policy as such. Dzyaloshinsky wrote that communication of policy and media is a must in today's society. Chernyshov Barzilov studied information processes that support the power structure. Also interesting works of Gaman-Golutvin who considered local elites and regional political processes. Interest in the study of the media as one of the main channels of transmission of information is induced by strong political influence of media on society. The following researchers have studied and considered various methods of press media in the supply of political information: P. Champagne, S. Kara-Murza, I. Miller, etc. Their works are based on what the proper interpretation of specific information could influence the perception of the political preferences of society. A number of researchers and political scientists note certain media involvement in the political process (T. Alekseeva, K. Hajiyev, A. Pear, A. Panarin, S. Reshetnikov, Soloviev etc.). However, analysis of Russian and foreign literature and scientific research suggest that problems in the functioning of the regional media were not hitherto subject of a special study. Among the published works, in varying degrees, affect this perspective, there are not so many publications devoted to regional media. Most publications explain information processes and problems in the functioning of the media in the transitional period on a national scale. 
     
We also used textbook of P.V. Panov «Theory of political institutions» in order to explore the new institutional approach, and subsequently apply it in our research.
    
As previously mentioned, the main purpose of the study is the interaction between the regional authorities of the Perm region and the media, which we consider as separate institutions. Thus research's Methodology is the new institutional approach. The founders of this approach are D. March and J. Olsen. The new institutionalism is the study of institutions as the set of rules and organized practices that are relatively invariant under a change of specific individuals and are relatively resistant to the specific preferences and expectations of the actors and to changing external circumstances, give direction and meaning of behavior, explain, justify and legitimize behavior codes, resource structure and create opportunities for action (Krivonosov, 2010, p. 384).
     
For the study we will use the following methods: the classic text analysis, quantitative content analysis and descriptive statistics. The classic text analysis is understood as a diversity of mental operations aimed at the interpretation of the information contained in the document, from a certain point of view adopted by the researcher in each case (Krippendorff, 2004, p. 413). This analysis of the texts we will use to interpret the material social and political periodicals and online publications. The aim of the analysis is to examine the context of writing articles and positions of the authors on the cooperation with the regional authorities (Ahremenko, 2006, p. 333). This analysis will help us to identify some of the bonds between the authorities and the media, determine the ideological affiliation of media and its owner and, in accordance with the received data, make a percentage ratio of opposition and pro-government media. The essence of quantitative analysis is the use of mathematical and statistical procedures for analyzing the data array. Quantitative content analysis will allow determining how often the name of a regional official is mentioned in some media, in order to identify whether the funding media depends on the number of publications about this officer. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the data obtained in the framework of research. Descriptive statistics allowed us to graphically represent the situation in the market of government orders and based on the statistical characteristics of the variables identify the competitiveness and independence of the media (Kryshtanovski, 2006, p. 281). 
     
Thus, we represent the regional authorities of Perm region as an institution, which pursues its own rational purpose, affecting the context of the media, for example, creating a positive image of the deputy.

On the basis of analyzing the development of the media of the Perm region we will identify trends of further monopolization of the media under the influence of the state and municipal authorities and under the control of large enterprises and media owners; the artificial support of high volume print media of authorities against the background of the growing popularity of private press; increasing gain of control of the authorities over the activities of independent media through financial, administrative and technological forms of influence; reducing the level of information culture of the subjects of the information space, the growing divergence of direction and content of the media with the best interests of citizens.

We will determine the problem of interaction between authorities and the media in the Perm region. Thus, we hypothesized that despite the rapid development of the information sphere, information policy in the region has not been become a priority; poorly developing interactive information technology in the system of «authorities – the media»; lack of a unifying spiritual and ideological concept of development of Russian society as a strategic perspective, which adversely affects the formation and implementation of federal and regional information policy.

We also suppose that the state media, despite the considerable financial support, loses popularity and influence on the mass consciousness in favor of the non-state media. This leads in turn to a decrease demand to the state media, a reduction of income from advertising and as a result, the subsequent increase in the size of financial support.
     
In addition it will be constructed the graphic model of media financing by regional authorities of Perm region, which will reflect what funding will have a variety of media.

Perm krai is a region where the media market is developing dynamically. Today, more than eighty active media registered in Perm. The level of competition varies considerably in the city and the region: there are areas where only one newspaper is published and is usually maintained by the local budget.
     
Feature of interaction of media and regional authorities in the Perm region is the principle of patron-client relations, in which the patron is power, and the customer is media. Regional media become the mediators of social and political forces and major economic structures. Freedom of expression virtually absents, as the mass media have to realize the idea of sponsors, customers and the owners of the newspaper, in order to make a profit. 
     
In spite of revenues from advertising and subscriptions, Permian television and radio, and print media depend primarily on government funding, that they receive, posting positive materials about the activities of the Administration of the governor and of the city and of the Legislative Assembly. Print media are influenced by funding more than others, because the prices of imported printing services increased due to the sanctions. Innovations in the financing of the Perm region proved the dependence of the mass media on the authorities. In April 2015, more than twenty one media stopped its activities in connection with the new terms of financing of the regional authorities, including one of the oldest newspapers "The Local Time". These conditions require placing pro-government material in larger scale: from 28 to 71.8 thousand sq. cm. while reducing the cost per square centimeter. «Many Permian newspapers have to place the material only about the activities of government in almost every issue of the newspaper, which will replace the most read strips about local life and local issues» (Duhonin). Budget distribution for television and radio will match the previous year. 
     
Thus, we can say that freedom of speech is suppressed in the Perm region, moreover local authorities try to seize the media market and completely deprive the freedom of expression. This leads to a lack of pluralism and passivity of citizens in political decision-making; it makes people puppets in the hands of the government.