British political history has always been one of  interests for political scientists and historians. Moreover, Britain was the first country of liberal democracy where the two-party type of the political system was formed.
     
Over recent years, the apparent resurgence of the independence movement in Catalonia finds echoes among other minority nationalist groups in Europe. Persistent Scottish independence which is under the leadership of the Scottish National Party places Scotland at the head of Europe's separatist pack ( The Guardian, 2012). Furthermore, the question of Scotland's separation from the UK appeared a long time ago. The Scottish autonomy embraces such fields as education, transport, health care, culture and environmental protection. Financial planning, social and, of course, foreign policy remained in the jurisdiction of the UK (BBC, 2013). After the Scottish independence referendum in 2014, Scotland saved the status as part of the UK, but the main Scottish nationalist party SNP became the third largest party in the Commons. These events that occurred in the last five years make us think about prospective of the Scotland separation and real policy of the Scottish parliament. 

The research is aimed at identifying the position of the Scottish parties concerning Scottish separation, thereby, to place each party on the political spectrum according to official policy of each party.  Hence, a number of specific tasks were set to achieve the purpose. Firstly, to delineate external and internal boundaries of the position of each party in the Scottish parliament directed to the question of separation. Secondly, to describe the existing variation in political beliefs among Conservative, Nationalist, Labour and Lib-dem parties. 

However, the research deals with the current problem, which has not got scientific support in the literature yet. In other words, there is an enormous field for the research of the problem area. This determines the practical novelty of  this study. Also, the question of Scottish independence was not considered from that point of view when positions of all parties in  the parliament take into account.

The key issues of the research considered with ideologies and values which the particular Scottish party supports and, consequently, builds the separate policy. The hypothesis can be theoretically challenged by comparison of the political programs of the each party and statements of the party members in the media.

It is extremely important to define the paramount movement connected with separation in Scotland. And the first one is unionism, which advocates Scotland as part of the United Kingdom in its present structure. The second is devolutionism which defends expand of the rights for the Scotland parliament, next to it is federalism, aims to transform the UK into federation. And the last one is separatism which defends Scotland as an independent state.  
     
The overall issue of the research is political parties, however, as every phenomenon, parties continue to transform within the society progress.  In addition, there is a specific course of development, depending on the numerous factors as history, mentality, political regime, for the every single county which determines the transformation of all political institutions including parties. Thus, we can explain the existence of great variety trends in science at investigating the theory of the party system, which contain extremely different theories and approaches, sometimes conflicting. 
      
The history of the research of political parties refers to the 18th century. David Hume  was a Scottish philosopher, who had created the first classification of parties. His approach explained the principles of party’s formation in a perspective of human nature. Refunding the punch line of approach, Hume offered two kinds of parties, “affection” which was based on personal preferences to the leader, and “principle” which was formed on the basis of common idea, ideology of a certain time (1978, p. 484). After Hume’s works the discussion of parties gets more specific, and, also, it is dramatically influents on this research.
      
It should be noted, that activity of  Whigs and Tories in the UK started in the 18th century.  It explains the increasing interest to the party as political institution in those times. So, another English political theorist is Edmund Burke. It his work “Thoughts on the Cause of the Present Discontents” (1770), Burke developed a philosophy that defined the basic framework of the political party as “a body of men united, for promoting by their joint endeavours the national interest, upon some particular principle in which they are all agreed” (p. 256). Political scientist’s use this classical, encompassing definition in their articles up to this days, since it is reflects the paramount features of the politic party as institution or phenomena. 
     
However, along with English philosophers was a Russian political scientist Moisey Yakovlevich Ostrogorski who is considered as one of the founders of political sociology, especially in the field of theories about party systems and political parties. His main work “Democracy and the party system in the United States” (1910) revealed the mechanism of power and control in today's society by showing the contradictions of the principles of democracy and the actual functioning of political parties. 
     
One of the fundamental theories were influenced on the study of the party system was the “iron law of oligarchy”. The author is Robert Michels who was German sociologist, developing approach about political behavior of intellectual elites.  His famous work “Political Parties”, published in 1911, which contains the hypothesis that any form of social organization (even a political party), will inevitably degenerate into the power of an oligarchy (p. 158). Many contemporary scholars fairly advocate this approach, because it’s hard to underestimate the contribution of Michel’s to the political science. 
     
In the current period there are various directions of political science within witch party system are studied.  The number of approaches and literature on the subject contemporary grows,   but it is impossible not to mentioned the main classifications of party systems which important for this research. 
     
The main theorist in field of knowledge is Maurice Duverger, who has studied the evolution of political systems and the institutions and devised a theory which became known as Duverger's law. This law identifies a correlation between an election system and the formation of a two-party system ( Duverger, 1972, p.67). Nevertheless, this approach couched a lot of substantive debate among scholars and also can be theoretically challenged in the current period.  
     
Another prominent scientist is Giovanni Sartori. His work “Parties and Party Systems” (1976) had fully disputed Duverger’s theory and presents the conceptually new approach at studying parties’ classification. Sartori offers seven types of party systems and suggests a new explanation of principles and mechanisms at classification. However, this concept is not actual for studying Scottish parties and underestimates the importance of   independence movements. 
     
The number of approaches is due to a difference in the interpretation of nature of the parties. It can be confidently said, this research represents the absolutely new approach at classification of the parties, based on such variable as level of separation, that have not been done yet. 
     
As it has been mentioned earlier, the key issues of the research considered with ideologies and values which the particular Scottish party supports and, consequently, builds the separate policy. Accordingly, the research is tied up with studding ideologies and values, and for this reason the paramount methodological approach is structural functionalism.
     
The theory was offered by the American sociologist, philosopher and social theorist Talcott Parsons who is considered one among the creators contemporary theoretical sociology.  Structural functionalism examines society through a macro-level orientation, which is a broad focus on the social structures that shape society as a whole, and also signifies society like a unified organism.
     
Parsons’ main ideas were described in the following work: “The Structure of Social Action” and “Relations to cybernetics and system theory”, which reflects significant consequences for scholarship and sociology in particular. 
     
The underlying approach is the provision that it is the interaction between two  individuals  faced with a variety of  choices about how they might act, choices that  are influenced and constrained  by a number of physical and  social factors. Therefore, according to Parsons (1998), all systems are interconnected and interdependent, thus maintaining the integrity and efficient work of the society (P.75).
     
Within the frame work of research, the Scottish parliament exists like a system and parties are subsystems at different levels, connected and coexisted, despite of sundry nature.  Also, every party has a specific function within the system which allows the parliament to carry out political commitments.  Ideology, in turn, is one of the subsystems too, and it is a system of values of the society, or the party in case. 
     
Additionally, as the research is connected with values, concealed in various kinds of texts, it is account for the axiological method in frame of content analysis. In this case, the value is understood as a method of describing social institutions, and the society as a system with the ideological value content. Accordingly, this method is used to identify the ideological content of the party and the analysis of the specificity of the values in the policy. (Parsons, 1998. p. 52)
     
During the analysis of sources, it is necessary to highlight the top values advocated by the members of all the parties in the parliament, and compare it with official ideology of the corresponding party. Comparing the values, we can make a table with distribution parties from separatists to unionists. 

As a result of the research, it will be an overview of the official policy of the Scottish parties from the perspective of separatism and provides a new classification as a result. There are four major parties in Scottish parliament and, accordingly, there are four positions on the issue of separatism. Following this logic, research contains four chapters, which conform to each party. My arguments will be based on the data obtained in contemporary analysis of official programs of the parties and statements, interviews of representatives.
       
In general, we suggest that each party can move along the political spectrum in pursuance of the functionary policy, so the real policy would not match of actually promoting solutions. 
     
My contribution, if any to be debated will consist of largely in an illuminating complex set of circumstances within the question of the party classification.  It should be noted that the research is actual in the frame of current increasing continuous concern for separation in the world.

It can be concluded that the problem of study concerns the extremely important issue of contemporaneity as separation on the example of Scotland. In the same time, the investigation examines the party system from the considerably new point of view, when level of separation is a variable. Contemporary political science offers so much various theories and approaches, but it has been shown, therefore, that the research represents the absolutely new method of classification of parties, conceptualizing the most significant approaches in literature. It can be concluded, the obtained results responds stated objectives.  