The center-regions relationships is one of the permanent problems of federations. In Russia, which is considered by majority of researchers as an authoritarian state, the federal center dominates these relationships by setting regional budgets, ruling personal policy and providing advantages for concrete regions. The treatment of the center to the regions depends on multifarious factors that may have both formal and informal character. The former group of factors includes geographical location of a region, its economic situation and social problems. All these attributes can be depicted statistically. The informal factors can not be documented officially, it is defined by relationships between federal and regional elites and especially the level of a governor’s personal loyalty to the President. 
     
The problem of federal center’s treatment to the regions assessment has interested of specialists in the areas of the Russian regional policy, elitology and budget federalism. However they have mostly analyzed particular factors and there is no any complex system would be able to characterize a certain region from the point of informal relations with the center. 
  
The research is devoted to the problem of integral assessment of informal treatment of the Russian federal center to the regions (that is named in this paper as informal political status). In the work we have tried to create such integral assessment system and to evaluate the significance level of several informal factors for the center’s treatment to the regions. 
     
To achieve the purpose of the research it is important to regard the following issues. First of all, it is necessary to make a literature review with accumulation of the landmark researches which will be used for selection of factors included in the system. Secondly, on the grounds of the theoretical findings there will be constructed a model that includes several dependent and independent variables (factors). Thirdly, quantitative indicators for these factors should be found. The four task is the regression analysis of the variables and finding dependencies.  Finally, the obtained results will be interpreted. 

The research deals with the issue of influence of political tension, expressed in specific factors, on economic and political preferences for regions. Therefore, there is no social and demographic indicators such as the level of education in a region, crime rate or population base. Moreover, the created system is not pretend on completeness; the main aim is to assess the significance of factors that can have an impact on the Russian federal center’s treatment to the regions.

The empirical results of the research can be used by experts, whose interests lie in the areas of regional studies and elitology, as an instrument of the regions’ statuses assessment and analysis of intergovernmental relations in other federations with authoritarian regimes. The theoretical novelty of the work consist of building the multi-factorial system of instruments could be used for center-regions relations analysis. 

The main term of the research is “an informal political status of a region” that can be interpreted as the treatment of the federal center to a region, expressed in political and economic actions (e.g. transfers supply and special economic zones creation), influenced by informal relationships between federal and regional elites and, especially, the governor’s loyalty to the President.

The issue of federalism plays a vital role in modern political science. Considering federalism as a phenomenon, many researchers note that there are not any identical models of federations. Since the criteria of a federation are few in number and quite flexible (for instance, R. Turovsky (2008) distinguishes two grounding attributes: 1) vertical distribution of authorities between federal and regional levels of governance; 2) regional representation in one of the national parliament chambers), federative states have a room for manoeuvre when are building political systems and forming power balance between center and regions authorities. 
     
Russian federalism establishment came in 1990s when the most part of resources was spending on covering of USSR collapse expenses. The evolution of this process might be divided be several ways. The classification of N. Lapina (2007) will be used in this research. She identifies three stages of center-regions relationships conditions.
1. 1990-1993. “Spontaneous decentralization”, when regions exchanged their political loyalty on authorities. At that time the only one mechanism of center influence on regional policy existed: national government was able to control the elites recruiting process, and only in “Russian” regions, but not the national republics that were governed by their own rules. 
2. 1994-2000. “Asymmetrical federalism” that was a time of regional autonomy flourishing. The creation of Russian Federation Constitution in 1993 laid a foundation to the beginning of institutionalization of center-regions relationships. Every region by its own way constructed their legislation bases and regional power systems. Regional interests gained public acceptance at this period (one means bilateral agreements between the regions and the center).
3. 2000-now. “Recentralization of Russia”, has begun since Vladimir Putin inauguration. This period can be characterized by forming of top-down governance and united economic, juridical and administrative space. Whereas there are no institutionalized channels of regional interests representation, informal ways of interests articulation have become actual. It followed by increasing the role of such factors advantages of administrative offices and loyalty of regional elites towards the President. 
     
The distinguished stages illustrate wide variety of region’s representation models. During the first phase center-regions relationships were built by a bargaining model, when regions had political resources and could stay had been just obtained center independence. The stage of institutionalization has formed the representation mechanism. It was a time of the strongest representation in the both Chambers of the Parliament. The stage of centralization is characterized by the informal institutes’ role growth. The ways of such informal representation was elucidated in a high number of researchers by Russian authors: 
R. Turovsky, O. Gaman-Golutvina, N. Zubarevich, A. Chiricova, N. Lapina, 
N. Raspopov, Y. Gaivoronsky etc.
     
The top-down governance building has led to budget dependence 
of regions from the federal center. Nowadays the greater part of taxes collected from individuals and legal entities is sent to the federal budget and just afterwards is redistributed to regional budgets as transfers. At that, the transparency of transfers supply mechanism is put in doubt. As G. Sharafutdinova and R. Turovsky (2016) note, only two of four basic types of transfers (subventions and equation grants) are distributed by a specific formula and correspond to an intraregional economic situation. The other two types of transfers, which are subsidies and fiscal balancing, have not any explicit distribution criteria, their size is defined, in the words of N. Zubarevich, “in manual mode” (Àëÿáüåâà, 2014), i.e. it is based on political preferences paid to a particular region.  Data from the site of Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, which has been analyzed by Sharafutdinova and Tyrovsky (2016), depicts dramatic increase of “politically sensitive” transfer’s proportion within the total set of transfers (p. 5). 
     
The problem of transfers in Russia is also taken into concern by A. Yakovlev, I. Markes and E. Nazrullaeva who have detected a positive correlation between transfers supply and the level of voting in favor of “United Russia” in a region. A. Starodubtsev notes that turnout level and the percent of spoiled ballot papers are also have an impact on the regional budgets. He denoted two strategies of the center relatively to transfers policy: the first is stimulation of loyal regions, and the second is cooptation of “protest” regions, which are regions where the turnout was low, and “United Russia” has not taken a “prerequisite threshold” of votes. Starodubtsev (2009) concludes that because of the centralization course, the strategy of stimulation is much more significant for the center. 
     
Besides the transfer policy, there are other informal aspects that regulate center-regions relationships. For instance, tax deduction, setting time and size 
of consolidated budget debt, financing of federal target programs in certain regions. Dependence of budgets followed by political the one: beneficiary regions (that are the vast majority) have no resources to promote their own policy and therefore they submitted by Moscow, whereas “donor” regions can afford to build partnership with the center. 
     
The lobby potential of the regions, as was mentioned before, is defined by the relationships between federal and regional elites. There is a loyalty criterion in the basis of these relationships, that is denoted by N. Afanasiev (1997), who studies regional clientelism in Russia, and A. Makarin (2008), who has said that “allegiance to a clan or its patron is the most important informal mechanism of consolidation within elites and authority structures recruitment in the regions” (p. 39). R. Turovsky (2007), characterizing the center-regions relationships as patron-client, introduces the concept of “vertically integrated clienteles” (p. 84) that means the structures of networks including elites of different levels. Therefore, one can suppose that nowadays the political status of the regions to a large extend depends on loyalty of regional elites to the center. 
     
The next variable that may have an impact on the center-regions relationships is representation of the regions in the Parliament. As the researches of K. Ross and R. Turovsky (2013) state, the Council of the Federation, which is the Upper Chamber of the Federal Assembly, and where the regions must be represented by Constitution, has lost its legislative functions since the centralization period coming. Now the Federal Council is the place of “honorary retreatment” for former governors and politicians with a force-structure background. In the State Duma, which is the Lower Chamber of the Parliament, the regions are performed a little better than in the Federal Council, but the best way of representation of regional interests is service of regional elites in bodies of executive power, such as President Administration and the Government (Turovsky, 2007). 
     
The credit of trust to the governor is one else criterion of center’s treatment to a region. The figure of a region’s head has acquired significance due to the processes of centralization (Lapina, 2007), so we should consider it separately from other elites’ representatives. The ability of a governor to consolidate elites, to ensure the required turnout level and to be popular is playing a vital role for the whole region (Chirikova, 2015). The treatment of the center to a governor will be defined by his position in ratings of governors’ effectiveness by the Fund of civil society development, by the Fund “Petersburg Policy” and by the Communication Group “Minchenko Consulting”. Additionally, it is significant to take into consideration the way of governor’s status obtaining (nomination or direct elections), and the existence of biographical connection of a region’s head to the location (Gaivoronsky, 2015), because it could influence his position in the rating. 
     
The analysis of Russian and foreign studies has shown that there has been no tries to create an integral system of the center-regions relationship assessment, and it is proves that the research is relevant. 
     
The aim of the research implies the analysis of importance of factors influencing the federal center’s treatment to the regions. It proposes to use the method of multiple regression analysis so that calculate the significance level of independent variables (or predictors) and to define the contribution of every factor (Linear regression analysis – the Center of Statistical Analysis. The regression analysis demands using quantitative variables, so we should transform all the qualitative the ones. Multiple regression means that there is more than one dependent variables and one or more predictors. In this research, there is several dependent variables (transfers, federal target programs as a dummy-variable and other privileges for a region) and several of independent the ones (electoral activity, the protests level in the region etc.). 
     
All of the regions of Russia are analyzed for the period from 2007 to 2017, which includes two President elections (in 2008 and 2012) and two State Duma’s elections (in 2011 and 2016). The ten-year period helps to trace the dynamic of the center-regions relationships and reveal the outlying cases. In doing so we can to enhance representativeness of the research. However, it should be taken into account the following:
1) there are different number of the regions due to the Crimea’s joining, so the new two regions have become favorites of the center;
2) two economic crises have happened for these years (2008 and 2013), so we can find what regions are supported first and foremost, and what are afterwards. 
     
So, the goal is not to evaluate the correlation of the factors as they are, but to sort they by the significance, and the method of multiple regression analysis is supposed to be applied for the research’s aim achieving. The main disadvantage of this method it disability to explain casual relations (Multiple regression –Statistics electronic tutorial) – we can only to estimate the numeric value of a factor but then the results must be analyzed delicately. 

It is supposed that the regression analysis will reveal the significance of such independent variables as regional elites loyalty to the center, the ability of electorate mobilization and representation of the regions in federal authorities, on the treatment of the center to the regions. We presume, tracing G. Sharafutdinova and R. Turovsky’s thought, that the significance of the electoral factor (the turnout level and the present of pro-“United Russia” votes) is not high, because now regional elites try to maintain suitable results on the federal elections so that to save their offices, and therefore the dispersion value of the results among the regions is low (2016, p. 11). Oppositely, the influence of a governor’s rating can turn out to be high, inasmuch as a governor’s figure significant has grown since the period of centralization in Russian regional policy. Speaking of the representativeness factor, it is assumed that representation of a region in federal executive authorities (the number of regional natives taking high offices in the President Administration and in the Government) is much more significant for the region’s privileged position than representation of the region in national legislative authorities (the number of regional representatives in the State Duma). 
     
The treatment of the federal center to the regions depends on wide number of factors. Some of them, such as economic situation and geographical location are fact-based, whereas other factors commonly based on informal criteria. Therefore, one can tell about the existence of the regions’ informal political statuses that can not be institutionalized. Such status depends on: 
* relationships between federal and regional elites and the loyalty of regional elites to the Cremlin, which are figured out in electoral results (turnout level and the percent of votes for “United Russia”);
* the loyalty of a regions’ head to the center, that can be expressed in the position in the governors’ effectiveness ratings; 
* the representation of a region in national executive and legislative authorities – the number of regional natives taking high offices in the President Administration, the Government and the State Duma.
     
These factors were chosen as independent variables. The dependent variables, which reflect the center’s reaction on behavior of a region, are the next:
* the level of transfer supply (there are estimated four types of the transfer: subsidies, subventions, fiscal balancing grants and equation grants); 
* financing of regionally-oriented Federal Target Programs (their number);
* the number of the Special Economic Zones on a region territory;
* tax deduction and other advantages for a region;
* execution of international events on a region territory. 
     
The multiple regression analysis has been chosen as a method of significance evaluating for one or another factor (independent variable). It is supposed that the electoral factor has a low impact on the dependent variables inasmuch as the loyalty of regional elites (especially the governors) significantly influence the center-regions relationships. Another hypothesis is that the representation of a region’s natives in federal executive authorities much more important for privileged position of the region than the representation in legislative branch of power. 
     
To verify the independent variables, there was made a decision to induce control variables that are:
* economic situation that is reflected in such indicators as gross regional product (GRP) per capita, the level of unemployment, the dynamic of industrial development and average income of citizens per month;
* geographical location of a region: it should be noticed if a region is crossed by trade routes or is situated in hard accessible zone. 

This variables help to define deviations and to show if there are regions where informal factors are more important than the formal ones. 