Among a great number of ideological and political trends, existing in modern world, a significant role belongs to conservatism. Modern liberal conservatism in Germany is regarded as an intricate and divergent phenomenon in political sphere of given state because Germany’s history is complicated: Germany is an example of the late formed state, which encountered the dangerous way and presented the National Socialism. 
           
Moreover, it is exceedingly important to emphasize that the political-ideological spectrum in modern world began to take shape of the sphere, in which various, on the one hand, ideologies start to interconnect, permitting the absorption of views and values, related to not similar ideologies. CDU - the ruling party in modern Germany - positions itself as a centrist party, combining the liberal and conservative elements, considering the importance of the traditions and recognizing the necessity of the development. Nevertheless, it is possible to discover in ideology a lot of specific traits and ideas, not connected with a traditional concept of liberal conservatism, and this fact is of interest of many political scientists in Germany and other states. Because of this features and difficulties the investigation of Germany, its modern variation of conservatism, presented by the party CDU, and its ideological and values specifics can be relevant now. 

The major issue of the research is that, on the one hand, modern German conservatism does not cause the difficulty in theorizing, but, on the other hand, by investigating of the political process it is possible to identify features and even deviations from the phenomenon named liberal conservatism. Thus, the main problem can be formulated as a diffusion of types of modern conservatism in Germany. 
            
The purpose of the research is to determine ideological and values specifics in liberal conservatism in modern Germany. 
            
In relation to the purpose, a number of specific tasks should be emphasized:
            
1) to analyze the main theoretical approaches of German political scientists and historians to the concept of  liberal conservatism.
            
2) to outline the contours of the liberal conservatism, implemented by the party CDU, and highlight the main ideas and views, which were typical for liberal conservatism in Germany in the period from 1990 to 2005.
            
3) to investigate liberal conservatism in Germany from 2005 to 2015, to identify the ideas and views which were inherent to conservatism in the period of the chancellorship of Angela Merkel, and to ascertain the ideological specifics of German liberal conservatism.
            
The research is dedicated the issue, which features in modern German conservatism are, which factors the liberal conservatism in Germany influenced and where the discrepancy between theory of liberal conservatism and ideology in modern Germany is.

Conservatism implied a definite way of thinking, frame of mind, ideological form, type of policy, political philosophy directed to the protection of traditional foundations, public life, stable values and standing against radical changes and sharp renewal (Rakhshmir, 1987).

The good example of analysis of conservatism is presented in the work of A.A. Galkin and P.Y. Rakhshmir, in which origination and development of conservatism is found since French revolution and there is a detailed characteristic of different historical types of this ideological and political study (Galkin, Rakhsnmir. 1987). A.A. Galkin and P.Y. Rakhshmir detached three types of conservatism:

1) traditionalist. The traditionalist conservatism is directed to conservation of traditions, religion, development of social institutes (family, marriage). Traditionalists consider that all problems in modern world are the consequences of destruction of the medieval values, but traditionalists do not act radically, they always try to find national consensus (Rakhshmir, 1987). Traditionalist conservatism is based on consensus, but people should not forget about values. Modern traditionalist conservatism started to develop in the 1960s and was understood as ideology of restoration. T

2) reformist. The reformist conservatism can be characterized by adherence to social reforms and moderate regulative activity of the state. Liberal conservatism, in Germany is connected with name of Ludwig Erhard, who offered economic reforms, which led to “economic miracle”. The key ideas of liberal conservatism are economical and financial programs, attention to education and environment, value of rights and freedom. The difference between reformist and liberal conservatism is that for traditional conservatism traditions of the past and continuity are in the first place and the reforms do not significantly change the foundations of the society, while for the liberal conservatism traditions are perceived as heritage and reforms improve the political and economic systems in the state.

3) Radical. Radical conservatism is placed on political-ideological spectrum more right than other types of conservatism.  The primary idea of radical conservatism was the total antireformism, however, there is important clarification that some kind of renewals is essential, but these reforms are not gradual. The extremist conservatism is oriented to the advancement of nationalist view and ideas, fight against migration and globalization. (Rakhshmir, 1987). In contrast to traditional conservatism, radical conservatism calls to violence and refuse the idea of consensus. 

Despite the fact that conservatism is divided into many types, the study of modern conservatism is very complicated in consequence of the fact that the borders of ideology are diffuse and that is why it is difficult to outline the contours of liberal conservatism. 
            
It seems to be relevant to refer to Sven-Uwe Schmits and his books “Konservatismus”. This work of German researcher presents information about the main terms, important personalities and events in the political process in Germany (Schmitz, 2009). 
            
Another good example of the investigation of conservatism are works of Gunter Rohrmoser, in which there is explanation of the concept “Conservatism”, types of conservatism in Germany and characteristics of different types. According to Rohrmoser, conservatism means not thinking ideologically, but historically (Rohrmoser,1999).  The scientist explains that modern conservatism does not mean avoidance or obstacle to essential changes, but competent realization of changes, which seems to be historically conditioned and essential. Rohrmoser highlighted three conservative columns.
1) So called nationalist-conservative. The question about society is connected with national question, what is not traditional for CDU. The characteristic feature of this type of conservatism is speaking about protection of national originality, harm from globalization and integration.
2) In conservatism in Germany there are ordoliberals, who learned a lesson from the totalitarian system and excessive liberalism (Rohrmoser, 1992). The most successful result of ordoliberalism is social market economy.
3) So called conservative Christians.
            
Stephan Raabe offers another classification of German conservatism:
1) old-conservatism of 19century with conservative, liberal and social traits, like in social conservatism of Bismark.
2) young-conservatism after the First World War, which supported “conservative revolution”. 
3) neo-conservatism after the Second World War. This type of conservatism was aimed to refresh the political system from the National Socialism and communism, which destroyed the order in the state (Raabe, 2012). 
            
It is extremely difficult not to perceive CDU as fully conservative party; CDU is regarded as the people’s party with numerous trends: social, liberal and conservative, but, first of all, Christian democratic (Raabe, 2012).  Christian democracy implies responsibility to God and “brothers”, perceives the people as personalities with self-esteem (Raabe, 2012). The researchers propose the indicative items of Christian democracy: personalism, pluralism, solidarity, social responsibility, subsidiarity, respect to small community as family etc. 
            
Personalism implies the protection on personality in the family, school, upbringing. Pluralism means the presence and importance of the institutions and organizations, unions and parties. Subsidiarity in Christian democracy can be understood as the reasonable support of the poor in situations when all organizations and unions are not able to help and solidarity is mutual aid (Raabe, 2012).   

There are several points and features that are distinctive for modern conservatism in Germany: 
a) refusal the absolute faith in the progress and ideology in favor of experience;
b) distinction between liberalism and socialism, radicalism and totalitarianism;
c) preserving the order and achievements;
d) criticism of some serious drawbacks of postmodernism;
e) but: freedom, protection of jural and social statehood;
            
The investigation of ideology supposes the analysis of values and ideas. The major method of study of ideology is critical discourse-analysis of ideology (Freeden, 1996). The feature of this analysis is recognition of ideology as a multi-conceptual construction. This type of analysis allows isolating the core, the cover and the periphery. At the core there are ideas and concepts, which are crucial for the ideology. For liberalism, for instance, these key concepts are rationalism, individualism, freedom of market etc., for conservatism – order, traditions, religion. The ideas that are in the cover are important too, but they can be decisive for ideology in specific situations. Peripheral concepts are significant for ideology because they leave a mark on it and add luster to the main concepts. Discourse-analysis as a method allows to investigate the political documents, interviews, programs of parties and to understand the language which the politicians use to inform the society.
            
Another important method of ideology analysis will be comparative method. Comparison is fundamental instrument of analysis. Lijphart defines the comparative method as the analysis of a small number of cases, entailing at least two observations, yet too few to permit the application of conventional statistical analysis. This method allows to compare the state of the ideology in different time periods and to make a conclusion about the changes.
Predicted Outcomes
            
The distinctive feature of the works, dedicated to liberal conservative in Germany is the absence of theoretical background in the interpretation of German scientists. The information about neo-conservatism in USA as an introduction to the works about conservatism in Germany is outdated, but this singularity is removable, that is why, the first outcome of this research will be the theoretical review of the leading approaches of German researchers to the concept of liberal conservatism. 
            
The ideology analysis will show the complexity and discrepancy of given ideology once again. On the one hand, the same concepts will be used every year, but it is peculiar for ideology to absorb the features of other ideologies. In consequences of this, the second outcome will be the identification of the key ideas and values in modern German conservatism in the period from 1990 to 2005 and outlining the borders of liberal conservatism with liberalism and traditionalism. 
            
It was also assumed that the chancellorship of Angela Merkel influenced the conservatism, thus, the third outcome will be the confirmation of this hypothesis and highlighting the fundamental views and ideas of conservatism in given period. 
            
Finally, the last outcome will be presentation of the ideology’s state in the period of 1990-2015 in the form of the table and it will be explained how the liberal conservatism changed since 1990. 