Police reform in Russia was the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs which was implemented in 2009-2011 with the aim of improvement of law enforcement agency effectiveness, fighting corruption and rise of law enforcement agency reputation.
            
The first steps to the Police Reform were made in 2009 when a number of high-profile crimes was committed by police. The main reason to realization the Reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is an increase of violation of law and discipline by police officers which causes a negative reaction in society and undermines the government authority.
            
According to Transparency International, Russia is the most corrupted country. As the public opinion survey demonstrates, Police is a sector which is perceived to be the most corrupted. It demonstrates the low level of trust of citizens to police. Increasing of this level is one of the key aims of police reform that shows a significance of present goal. For this reason this investigation is relevant.

On the basis of scientific challenge there is a contradiction: Police who are supposed to be guardians of the society form the most predatory institution which does not provide trust for the population.
            
The major issue of the investigation is to find out the impact of this reform on the activities of the police officers. 
            
Thus, the purpose of this research is to identify if the declared results of the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Russia correspond to the reality. 
            
A number of specific tasks should be emphasized:
1. To analyze the regulations related to the activities of the police and taken in for police reform.
2. To define how «initiators» and «performers» of the police reform in Russia interpret the aims of this reform.
3. To correlate these interpretation.

The main inferences and ideas of present investigation can provide further theoretical conceptualization and development of knowledge about reforms realization by government in their own interests. 

«Reform of the police» is the set of actions taken by "ruling group" directed on transformation of the norms relating to activity of police officers.
«Initiators» is the political elite, «ruling group», who is implementing reform of police.
«Performers» are members of law enforcement agencies who are under the this reform;
«Goals of reform» is a set of norms on which implementation the reform is directed.

The following review will be developed through a systematic way of studying a large body of literature on the subject.
            
Any reform means the transformation, change, reorganization of any conditions, institutions, without destroying their structural foundations. Reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia is no exception; its main purpose is to bring a number of significant changes to the law enforcement agencies, oriented to creating an effectively functioning system. However, this reform during the period 2009-2012 is remained in memory only by renaming the militia to police.
            
The issues of reforming have been studied by a great number of scholars: O. Blanchard, A. Shleifer, G. Roland, but wide range of their studies is ultimately applies to the reforms in economic sphere. Some theorists argued that one of the possible ways to transform institutions is «shock therapy» model (Jonathan, R. H., Shleifer, A., 1998).This model means a one-time radical change in the system of institutions. Also there is a «growing intuitions» strategy which is considered as an opposite to «shock therapy». Current model implies wide opportunities of improvement in a process of institute’s development but it also assumes a low transformation rate (Kuzminov, Y., 2005).
            
To provide theoretical background for the main argument of the article, it is necessary to turn to the question of the implementation of reforms. 
            
As the police reform in Russia is often compared with the successful police reform in Georgia in the 2000s, the particular importance for present research has a paper by Olga Sholderer «The drivers of police reform: the cases of Georgia and Armenia». «This article analyzes cases of police reform aimed at eliminating corruption. It focuses on two cases sharing similar problems of corruption in the past but with different outcomes after undertaking police reform: Georgia and Armenia» (Sholderer O., 2013, p. 323).There is a set of reasons to acknowledge a success of reform. For example, it is considered that a change in the political elite leads to successful reform realization (Sholderer O., 2013). Particularly, in the post-Soviet region the empirical evidence is found in O. Sholderer’s work. 
            
Peter Nasuti makes a suggestion that state capacity is a phenomena that guarantees a success of reform (Nasuti P., 2012) C.3].
            
The existence of ethnic conflicts in a country makes any reform difficult, argued Nona Shahnazarian (Shahnazarian, 2012).
            
The concentration of power in the hands of a group of interests also contributes to the "success" of the reform (Fernandez., R., Rodrik, D., 1991). 
            
In addition, the involvement of foreign actors and professional maintenance of reform are other important factors in ensuring its success (Sholderer O., 2013).
            
An essential step in reform of police is change in society, in attitude to a system «state – society», Kirichyok mentioned. According to him, «there are reasonable postulates: the police must provide services for citizens, since the police are supported by taxpayers. And, accordingly, it should not be a repressive force, but a part of public services» (Kirichyok, E., 2014, p. 61).
            
According to Marina Caparini and Otwin Marenin, reforms should be seen in normal work of the police. It is comparatively easy to devise plans for reform but it is difficult to implement goals on a sustained basis. An estimation of reform should be primary task for government to observe what actually has changed in the behavior of police leaders. It is neccessry that reforms, and policies implementing reforms, make sense to the police. They argued that, “the fundamental intermediary goal of reforms is a police culture which incorporates democratic values”, noting an importance of police culture in elaborating conception of reform (Caparini, M., Marenin, O., 2004, p. 16).

This part of proposal will explain the methods to be used in carrying out this study.
            
Institutional analysis is a well-recognized analytical approach. In the current study the methodology of neoinstitutional rational choice approach is employed. «Neo-institutional approach is based on backgrounds of rational choice theory primarily actualizes a way of organizing rational action, rather considering institutions as rules of the game, mainly focusing on the formal laws that describe these rules» (Smorgunov, L. V., 2006, p. 225).
            
E. Ostrom defined institutions as «the prescriptions that humans use to organize all forms of repetitive and structured interactions» (E. Ostrom, 2005, p. 3). These conceptions are organized by rules, norms and strategies (Ostrom, E. 2007).
            
First of all, this method has chosen due to the fact that within the neo-institutional approach an extremely wide range of issues is considered. It also includes changes in political institutions. In addition, this approach tends to methodological synthesis, namely to take into account a variety of factors that influence the political life.
            
The basic method to collect data in present research is interviewing. Particularly thanks to directive interview it is better to learn how a person responds to certain elements of information (Yadov, V. A., 2003). Only these interviews are able to provide the material for defining how «performers» of the police reform interpret its aims.
            
The main method used in the research is the classic text analysis which helps to analyze laws and regulations, and also interviews. It should be noted that the scope of the data allows to analyze the interviews manually.
            
To hold the interviews a number of questions relating to the activity of the police, informal practices in law enforcement, attitude between society and the police will be prepared. Pre-formulated questions will be addressed to experts, in our case, law enforcement agents.

This part of the proposal is organized in terms of research questions and reports on the results which are likely to be obtained with the methods mentioned.

As excepted results of current investigation the reform of Ministry of Internal Affairs in Russia may not be considered as successful. First of all, this is due to the fact that the main factors contributing to the success of police reform have not been implemented. It might be expected lack of change in the political elite, the same level of corruption and absence of involving of foreign actors in the police reform realization. However, it is assumed that the level of credibility to the police among citizens has grown. This prediction is based on the results of public-opinion poll.

Also the tentative conclusions of this research can demonstrate a positive impact of police reform in Russia on activities of the police officers. Probably, the reform has made their work easier and more effective.

The baseline results of the present research allow to permit following conclusions. 

Eventually, the «initiators» of the reform of police in Russia declare a set of objects. They are an improvement of the effectiveness of the police, a protection of interests and freedoms of citizens, an increase in a reputation of the police and in a level of credibility to the police, a maintenance of public security, fighting corruption, staff reduction, an increase in the amount of the budget financing of employees.

Using the results of the analysis of interviews there was formulated a conclusion that the objectives of the reform are partly achieved. 
            
Interpretation of the police reform by «performers» illustrates an efficiency of following goals: crime prevention, fighting corruption and increase in a level of public credibility. It can be assumed that it had to play a favorable role on the reputation of the police in general. In addition, rotation and reductions, as police officers note, did not lead to improvement of their material position. Moreover, according to the police, a large-scale dismissal has reduced the prestige of civil service. Furthermore, pressure of work compels law enforcement officers to cut the costs that negatively affects on quality of activity of police as a whole.
            
Consequently, the declared results of the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Russia partially correspond to the reality.