The first part of the paper introduces the background of the study, states the problem, point out the professional significance, and presents the definitions of the key terms. 

There is currently the growing interest in the liberal-conservative political ideologies. At the same time political experts claim that libertarian political doctrine become more and more popular among the academy and general public. Libertarian parties becomes far more popular in the last 20 years, but in the Russian academy little advance has been achieved.
     
Libertarianism is a political philosophy that is based on the principle of “non-aggression”. Libertarians are considering themselves as a successor of classical liberalism of the American Revolution period (1775-1783) and classical France liberalism of the France Revolution (1792). The key ideas of libertarianism are the essentiality of privet property, free market economy and rationality, political freedom and freedom of choice. Libertarians support various political concepts from conservative to libertinisms.
     
The major specialists divided libertarians in two groups: minarchists and anarchy-capitalists. The first group believes that government should be limited and fulfill only four functions – diplomacy feature, security feature, judicial function and law enforcement function. The second group claims that government has to be liquidated and all functions would be transferred to the private sector including social security. 
     
In the USA Libertarian party is the third political party, which has a great electoral support and representation in the government in some states. In Western European countries libertarianism is not less popular and also has a strong electoral support in some regions. 

The general purpose of this study is to make a comparative analysis of libertarianism in Western European countries on the example of Belgium’s, Great Britain’s and Germany’s libertarian political parties to identify the similarities and differences. 
     
To achieve the present investigation and successfully reach our research some current tasks will be solved. Firstly, our problem needs conceptualization of the libertarian party programs in Belgium, Great Britain and Germany to make our research more structural and understandable. Secondly, after the conceptualization process, compare libertarian parties programs of Belgium’s, Great Britain’s and Germany’s the 21 criteria and indentify the similarities and the differences using qualitative methods. 

The research study will be of primary significance to ideological political experts, specialists in comparative analysis and general people all over the world which are interested in political ideologies and political parties. Ideological political experts and specialists in comparative analysis may use the findings to better understand similarities and differences in libertarian political parties programs and to deeper realize the main diversity concepts in libertarianism in Western European countries. In addition the comparison, which is based on “structural-functional approach” of Talcott Parsons, may help us to compose the final table of similarities and differences. 

The study findings will be limited by the selection of involved political parties due to their declared ideology. Generalizability, the extent to which the results can be applied to other countries, will be limited by political programs of libertarian political parties in Western Europe: Belgium’s, Great Britain’s and Germany’s. Conclusions about similarities and differences in libertarian parties programs may not be applied to libertarian parties in the other European countries.   
     
The further limitations will be provided by the method of comparative analysis and “structural-functional approach”. The application of comparative method which will generally include conceptualization of the political party programs and main aspects of their political strategy will constrict the bounds of the research.
     
Finally, the main purpose of our paper is to define resemblances and distinctions in libertarian parties programs in Western European countries and conduct a comparison that will demonstrate differences between this libertarian parties and their concepts.            

Libertarianism - is a political philosophy that affirms the rights of individuals to liberty, to acquire, keep, and exchange their holdings, and considers the protection of individual rights the primary role for the state.

A large body of literature on concepts and principles of libertarianism ideology provides a basis for the present study. This section will observe both theoretical and empirical studies in the field. The general theoretical framework of the research has been compound from several works of the founders of libertarian philosophy: Ludwig von Mises, Murray Rothbard and David Bergland.
     
One of the key works found during the literature search fore the proposed study is the article by Murray Rothbard “Fore a new liberty: The libertarian manifesto”. The author suggest the most informative and practical concept of libertarianism ideology and produce a scientific libertarian political doctrine. Murray Rothbard presented the real political manifesto which was inherited as a basic program for libertarian parties. In the study the author presented the evolving trend of libertarian philosophy and ideology which starts in the XVIII century in USA during the American War of Independence. The scholar provides the basic libertarian ideas of freedom and limitation of the government intervention on the privet sectors which was formulated in the United States Declaration of Independence by Tomas Jefferson. 
     
Murray Rothbard represents key concepts of libertarian ideology the libertarian creed rests upon one central axiom: that no man or group of men may aggress against the person or property of anyone else. This may be called the “nonaggression axiom”. (Murray Rothbard, 1973). The basic ideas of libertarianism are: minarchism (minimization of the state), protection of the absolute freedom of the citizens, free-market economic system and using a competition mechanisms in all spheres of human life. Also, preceded from the concept of state minimization the author focuses on the four main government functions: diplomacy feature, security feature, judicial function and law enforcement function. A great amount of modern libertarian parties are based on those fundamental concepts. Belgium’s, Great Britain’s and Germany’s libertarian parties also declare those principles as a substantial rules in there political programs.     
     
More precise principles of libertarian ideology were investigated by David Bergland who was one of the leading specialists in political ideologies. In his work “Libertarianism in one lesson” David Bergland described and structured libertarian ideology by the main political ideas and concepts: state, economy, principle of “non-aggression”, privet property and competition principle. The scholar explains and proves primacy of libertarian ideology. The author clams that libertarian doctrine is one of the most effective concepts in general. In David Bergland’s work “Libertarianism in one lesson” (David Bergland, 1990) critically and structured stated the problem of libertarian ideology in modern world and its possible scenarios of political development. In the study the author focuses on political perspectives of libertarian ideology and formulated hypothesis of possible increase of electoral support candidates from libertarian parties, what we can see in a present day.              
     
Finally, from Ludwig von Mises study- “Liberalism in a classic tradition” we can obtain postulates of classical liberalism which are hot debated by present libertarian ideologists. Classical liberalists blaming the modern liberal ideologies in a way of ignorance of basic concepts of liberalism and becoming more and more socialistic.    
     
Finally, to achieve the present investigation and successfully reach our research we will use the comparative analysis method and the study written by Peter Lor who presents an example of a conceptual comparative model and the ways of making it with political parties programs. In short, the “International and Comparative Librarianship” (Peter Lor, 2011) may helps to understand the proper conceptualization way and give examples of comparative analysis of political parties and ideologies.               
     
After classic theories we jumped to “structural-functional approach” and the study Structural-functionalism (Nancy Kingsbary and John Scanzoni, 1993) formulated by Talcott Parsons. For our research it is extraordinary important to reveal a number of criteria that will be used in final comparative table.      

The goal of the research will be achieved by the deployment of a qualitative method, particularly comparative analysis. In political science comparative analysis began to be used in 1960-1980 years, and very soon becomes classical and well spread political method. Comparative analysis is based on the comparison of the similar political processes and phenomena’s. In our paper it is going to be programs of libertarian political parties in Western Europe: Belgium’s, Great Britain’s and Germany’s to define similarities and differences. The comparative analysis method helps to reveal the general and the special in political processes and phenomenon’s in different countries and in special situations. 
     
In the second part of the research we will use “structural-functional approach” of Talcott Parsons, which will help us to expand ideology and libertarian political parties programs on structural elements and distinguish comparative criteria’s (21 criteria) . This method helps us to find connections between elements of ideological structure and determine the functional set of elements in the general contest.      
     
Speaking about future results of the study it should be stated that at the stage of preparing the project proposal there is a number of theories and possible approaches which may probably design and develop our research. The study will be divided in two parts. In the first chapter we will conceptualize programs of libertarian political parties: Belgium, Great Britain and Germany in a way of finding non basic and classical aspects in party programs, basing on classical works of specialists in libertarianism ideology. 
     
In the second part of the paper we need to build the table with 21 comparative criteria. We expect that there would not be any fundamental differences because of the general ideology, but we expect some formal and contest specific futures for every country. The presentation of the results will use a table with comparison of libertarian political parties. The results will be reported accurately and objectively. Some complex data and facts will be presented in gaps under the comparison. Other results will be reported in the narrative text.
     
To sum up, the study may include some major theoretical implications and along with other similar studies it may provide a useful basis for practical libertarian researchers. 

In conclusion I would like to indicate briefly the key ideas of the research. The general porous of the study concerns a comparative analysis of libertarianism in Western European countries on the example of Belgium’s, Great Britain’s and Germany’s libertarian political parties to identify the similarities and differences. The project designed to reveal the tendency in libertarian political parties in Western Europe to find special and general concepts and points were libertarian parties are deviate. 