Nowadays, State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation considers questionable proposed laws aimed at decriminalization of some crimes, including domestic crimes. These and other proposed laws, that deal with a woman place in Russian society, cause a lot of public attention, as long as they consider serious violation of the women’s rights. Today, there is a domestic violence problem in Russia, which is confirmed due to the the amount of statistical data collected by law enforcement bodies. According to this data, the number of domestic crimes is steadily growing. Moreover, when analyzing contemporary political discourse, it becomes clear, that current authorities promote patriarchal ideas. For instance, the Federation Council senator has expressed her opinion on domestic crimes the following way: “We, women, are just the clinging vines that are allowed to do everything. We are not offended even when a husband beats his wife, although when we put our men down, they take it in a bad part. It is forbidden to humble a man». [The Village, Quote of the Day, "Elena Mizulina of domestic violence", Mikhail Konstantinov, electronic resource: http://www.the-village.ru/village/city/situation/246447-mizulina, date of the application: 18.10.2016]

However, taking western practice of 80-90s into consideration, different feminist organizations started cooperating their effort to create crisis centers for women (Hemment 2004). The first crisis centers for the women suffered from violence were soon build. They were aimed at changing the social attitude to this issue (Johnson 2009). Today, there are non-governmental and governmental crisis centers that help victims of domestic crimes. The number of such organizations grows, although many NGO have a hard time struggling for financial support  (Johnson, 2009).

The main goal of the study is to reveal gender aspects of the social policy in Russia using the example of crisis centers in Perm and Yekaterinburg, that is to reveal and analyze the way power is exercised through the crisis centers.

The research is motivated by the previous study of how “National Organization for Women”, based in the USA, works. As long as Russia is a democratic state, as well as the USA, and the Constitution of the Russian Federation contains the clause about gender equality, the question is: is Russian social policy directed to wrestle against the violation of the women’s rights and to provide social protection for women?

We will also answer the following research questions:
1)  How Russian social policy is implemented at the regional level? 
2) Is crisis center activity actually effective? 
3) How public authorities of social security interact with crisis centers in Perm and Yekaterinburg? 

Many scholars say that there is a connection between authoritative direction of power and the condition of crisis centers for women in Russia. Besides, some researchers think that crisis centers have an opportunity to influence public policy reformation and have a democratic potential at the local level (Johnson, Saarinen, 2011).

As for methodology, we use structural and constructivist approach based on Pierre Bourdieu’s structural constructivism, exploring social reality by analyzing objective structures that do not depend on people’s expression of will, and by analyzing people’s social action, which is formed from the certain social matrixes, social behavior models (Bourdieu, 2001).

In Gender and Power. Society, the Person and Sexual Politics by Ravin Connell considers gender theories from feminism to psychoanalysis, theory of gender roles, and sociobiology. It reflects the structure of gender relations in modern life and history; the new approach to femininity and masculinity is proposed; and proposes wide analysis of gender policy and dynamic of changes. Ravin Connell uses structural and costructivism approach and says that “if the structure of power aimes at providing high level of gender ordering, then practical area gives space for several conflicts on gender and sexuality to develop, social groups and resistance movements are formed.  Working with feminist ideas and theories and arguing with them at the same time, Connell raises the question on engaging people in the projects of reformation gender relations basing on equality. The core task for Connell – to understand the game of social forces, in which gender plays a vital role (Zdravomyslova, 2016). In this book, the exceptional importance of gender role in interaction of social forces, which define the movement and direction of social transformations in modern Russia. 

The works of Olga Michaylovna Zdravomyslova, the executive director of Gorbachev-fund, doctor of philosophical sciences, sociologist, are also directed to researching and implementing structural and constructivist approach in gender studies.

As the history of crisis center movement growth shows, the integration of neo-masculinist semi-authoritarian regime has limited the possibility of political activity for any kind of feminist project in Russia. 

During the development of crisis centers, feminism, which challenges men’s authority in professional and personal relationships with women, plays less important role, than in the middle of 1990-s. By the end of the first presidential term of Vladimir Putin, crisis center phenomenon was under control of state power interest, the policy of etatism was pursued. Crisis centers did not seem as a small social movement, and the most part of feminist movement foundation had been lost.
Now the staff of crisis centers consists of social workers, psychologists, students, and it does not have any activists. They are less likely to consider their activity as a feminist one, that includes advocacy and other political activity. They usually focus on the more traditional opinions on domestic violence, than on the feminist interpretation of femininity and domestic violence issues, and they avoid other irregular issues, such as sexual violence. 

However, the aim at struggling against domestic violence remains one of the main directions in the work of crisis centers, and the majority of centers’ workers still sees promotion of women’s rights the goal of their activity.
Crisis center movement was successful enough, and even governmental workers develop their functioning in women’s rights language, and many of them care about the way crisis centers deal with the abusers. (Jappinen 2011; Kulmala 2011)
Besides, crisis centers, NGO and governmental institutions, take part in a global movement against violence, despite of the governmental warning about foreign influence.

The strengthening of laws on violence against women remains one of the main tasks in Russia, which have convicted parliament to reconsider the enacting of laws against domestic violence in 2012. 
Our conclusions within the analysis of women’s movement on Russia says that it is just an echo when compared with the women’s movements all over the world. 

Lisa Mcintosh Sundstrom (2010, 253) claims, that “women’s organizations, particularly in Russia, face serious barriers because of their feminist foundations”. She points out that there is a deep resistance in self-identification and referencing oneself to feminism: “disputes among well-known Russian and European activists are widespread. They usually promote gender equality and a full women's status as a human”. 

In respond, European activists “predict moderate and soft relationships with Russian state on an issue of feminist approaches. They often doublespeak, using feminist terminology, when speak to western audience and common terms of women’s rights, when speak to Russian audience. We assume that such a tactic is a reaction to changes of gender regime in Russia, because women’s movement events happened in the whole society as well. According to Graeme Robertson (2010, 35), Russian hybrid state produce “a mixture of sponsored by the state and independent organizations together with pseudo organizations, in which state and independent elements are mixed”, and this mixture reflects our findings from women’s crisis centers. 
In December 2011, built on small anti-Kremlin protests over the last few years and energized by Putin’s announcement that of course he would again run for the presidency, mass protests alleging fraudulent elections erupted in Moscow and lingered through the spring presidential inauguration.

In December 2011, after Putin announced his intent to stand for presidential position again, there were mass protests against fraud elections in Moscow.

This political struggle had clear gender connotations connected with the group of anti-Kremlin punk activists Pussy Riot. 
Methods
     
The core methods of our research are in-depth interview and overt observation. Considering these methods, we can state the main limitation of our study, which is the possibility to examine crisis centers located in the nearby regions. The crisis centers to analyze are Crisis Center for Women in Perm and Crisis Center “Yekaterina” in Yekaterinburg. To analyze social policy of the state, it is essential to examine how certain social services of the regions work, because the analysis and understanding of gender aspects of social policy in federative states requires a deep and specific knowledge of social service activity at the regional level.  
     
To achieve research goals, it is necessary to complete the following tasks: to explore the statistical data on domestic violence in Perm and Yekaterinburg using the reports on crimes of MIA in Permsky Krai and Sverdlovskaya oblast’; to conduct correlation analysis of these statistics and the data on contacting the crisis centers, so that it will allow us to evaluate the effectiveness of crisis centers activity; to conduct in-depth interviews with the centers’ staff and administration in Perm and Yekaterinburg.

The interview will contain the following sections:
1) The structure of crisis centers for women
2) Management
3) Organization aims
4) Current organization’s activity and arrangements
5) Staff and clients
6) Advocacy
7) Organization resources
8) Interaction with the public authorities of social security

Expected results of this research can evidence of a weak social policy that deal with women’s rights protection and women’s social security. At this step of the research, the evidence is the great amount of data on domestic violence and patriarchal discourse of political power. However, the issue on ineffectiveness of crisis centered can have a connection with the attitude of women to such a kind of social help. That is why it is essential to reveal these factors by means of interviewing clients of various crisis centers.

In responding to protests Putin’s regime enforced the repressive laws, primarily the law requires that NGOs receiving foreign funding must register as foreign agents.

Social discontent with the current regime have caused a new kind of feminism and response to this regime predicts high expenses, moreover new laws may mean the end of history for independent crisis centers. 
Insofar semi-authoritarian regimes tend to grow up, it is very important to admit the role and influence of gender in the process of regime’s changing.

Considering that some feminist remainder is still in the Russian state, scholars should also search for resistance in the places that are less likely to contain it. For instance, cooperation among public authorities, social organizations that are open to political issues. Ironically, even activity that seems to be a cooptation may include elements of dispute and tactical struggle for changes.