Introduction
Background. In today's world, the videogame industry grows rapidly. New technologies, such as Virtual or Augmented Reality, developments in hardware and increasing interest in and curiosity about videogames attract more and more people of all ages with fresh ideas trying to create their own product to share it with the world. However, not every developer can achieve a certain level of success. There are several problems and difficulties that can occur during the development process, such as irrational planning, choosing design that is inapplicable for chosen genre, flaws in management, marketing or producing.
Aim. The objective of this project is to create a model of a project management system that is designed to work with a process of a game development. An important point that should be mentioned is that the system is specialized in development of a videogame in RPG genre, which adds specific requirements to the process of game development, such as deep elaboration of the plot and characters, creation of inventory system etc. All the stated problems can lead to failure on the market and disappointment of the developers and the players. Thus, it is important to design a project management system that would allow its users to lead a successful creation process, which will result in a satisfying game for players as well for its developers. The aim of this project is to create a model of the project management system for game development in RPG genre.
Tasks. To achieve the stated aim, certain objectives must be completed:
* Analyze the process of game development in RPG genre and to outline the special features of development process in the chosen genre
* Compare the functionality of already existing project management systems that are being used now and the functional requirements for game development
* Create models of functions that should be included in project management systems, designed to work with game development in RPG genre process
* Create model of the project management system for game development in RPG genre, which includes all the additional functions
Focus. The project will focus on answering the questions what project management systems are being used in videogame development now (As-Is model), what requirements to the project management systems should be met when developing a videogame in RPG genre, what additional functions can be implemented in the project management systems to fulfill the stated requirements, modelling these additional functions and after that modelling the whole project management system for the process of videogame development in RPG genre with additional functions that were stated earlier in the project.
The result of this project can be used by many videogame developers, from small studios or independent creators to big companies, due to universality of the modelled project management system. With clear understanding of how the process of game development should go, the game creators can achieve great success without sacrificing resources (human resources, time) on solving unexpected problems that can emerge during the development process. Even further, there may be no unexpected issues because of the ability to reflect every possible trouble in the modelled project management system.
Key terms: 
* Project management system is a complex software, including applications for task planning, scheduling, price control and budget management, resource allocation, collaboration, communication, quick management, documentation and system administration.
* Game engine is a software that is reusable and expandable, and thus can be considered as the basis for the development of many different games without significant changes.

Literature Review
This literature review covers different sources that cover aspects of the game development, such as game designing, plot writing, programming, as well as roles in the process of development, and sources that would be useful for modelling the system.
Scott Rogers gives a great insight into details of game design. This source provides information about different roles in game development, which knowledge is required for each role and what function every participant performs. Moreover, Scott Rogers meticulously describes every stage of development with information about actions that every team member should take. This source is particularly important for our project due to the amount of details and insights provided. With such information, modelling the process of videogame development would take less effort and the model itself will be more detailed and precise. 
Even deeper description about a part of game designers in videogame development is written in Colleen Macklin and John Sharp's work. They take an in-depth look into every aspect of the game development and how one of the main figures of any game development, game designer, has an influence on almost every step of the creation. This information can be used in our project to enhance the overall detalization of the developed model of the computer games development process, and clarify the role of game designers on different stages of the process. 
Writing a script is one of the most important aspects of videogame, because the plot and the story makes the game exciting and thrilling to play. The customer, or player in our case, should be immersed in the gaming process to ensure their loyalty and, consequently, the game's playability and popularity. Therefore our developed methodology have to consist certain details and key moments of storytelling and writing and a reat source of such information is the book  by Flint Dille and John Zuur Platten. They gathered important information and basic rules addressing character building, structure of the storytelling and carrying the plot until the end of the game. This work is important to our project because of necessity of understanding time and effort required to create a good plot, implementing it into our own methodology.
In addition to all of the above, the methodology that is being developed in our project should allow the users of the methodology to measure their success or at least have an understanding if they did everything right. Mateo Bosnjak, Tihomir Orehovacki conducted such a research. In their article, they briefly describe the development of small game and continue with process and results of the conducted survey afterwards. The survey consisted of post-use questionnaire that had three items related to demographic characteristics, two items to determine how long and how often the participants play video games and eighteen items for evaluating the quality of the played game. The items, besides the demographic and gaming habits ones, were modulated on a five-point scale with 1 for "strongly agree" and 5 for "strongly disagree". Despite the simplicity of the study, it provided a remarkable basis for further analysis, therefore proving usefulness of such methods in our own project.
The topic of player behavior is connected to the previous subject. Heather Desurvire and Magy Seif El-Nasr describe different methods that allow researchers to understand and determine where a game creates a good player experience and where it falls short. Some of the most common and effective methods, such as think-aloud, rapid iterative testing and evaluation (RITE), heuristics, playtesting and A/B testing, can be used in game production to enhance the quality of each stage. This source, as well as the previous one, is useful for our own research to have an analytic part in the process of game development.
Since our methodology will have game development advice, tips and rules, as every methodology has, we require sources of information that provides the insight of the process of the game development. One of such sources would be the work of D. Polancec and I. Mekterovic. In their article, they go through the whole process of game development on a real example, describing the architecture of the game, its mechanics and other details. The article written by Karen Shoop, Chris Lowthorpe, Larra Anderson and Simon Lucas provides information on a similar topic. In their work, they describe an experimental learning experience that mirrored commercial realities and processes in order to wrap the core game-making skills in a fusion of wider industry-relevant competencies. The information can be implemented in our project because of the exploration how the relevance of the game design lies not only in in the creative and communication competencies but also how this can be abstracted to inform project curriculum more widely. 
Paul J. Diefenbach writes another example of the game design learning in the article. His work addresses issues that students often encounter due to lack of experience and knowledge and certain ways to solve these problems. He covers some aspects of the game, connected to game designing, such as gameplay, plot and balancing. Continuing the topic of game design, Raph Koster describes a psychological aspect of game design in his book. From this point of view, he then examines every part of the game design in game development with commentary at key moments. This unusual point of view can be helpful in adjusting some details in our project.
Level design is one of the most important aspects of game development. Good level design creates an overall atmosphere of the location and improves immersion of players. Ahmed Khalifa, Fernando de Mesentier Silva and Julian Togelius study six common level design patterns in their work that are common over thirty 2D games. They discuss the advantages of each pattern, showing examples of games that successfully use those patterns, and conclude with how level design and other technical approaches can benefit from the patterns. For our project, this article is important due to description of level design patterns that can be implemented in our methodology as good examples of this aspect.
Modelling of the project management system is an important part of this project. To create a good and useful model, certain knowledge is required, such as modelling language, rules of modelling. These topics are covered in Antoni Oliv's work, as well as giving details about conceptual modelling, which in today's world is considered enough to start the development using the created model. This source is very useful to complete our project, because it is straightly connected to the aim of the project - creating a model of a software.
Methods
The research methods of this project are literature review and software modelling.
The literature review is a research method that helps with classifying already existing studies about the chosen subject. It allows the researcher to understand how deeply the subject of the project is already developed, so literature review is very useful to narrow the field of research and to understand what to study. In this project, the literature review method was implemented in certain steps: first, studies that share the subject of this project were selected to get an understanding of how deeply the subject is researched. Second, after the reading of the contents of the selected studies, author of this project described the ways that the sources could be used and implemented in their project.1 This method is greatly described in "Analyzing the past to prepare for the future: Writing a literature review" by J. Webster and R.T. Watson.
The software modelling is the process of defining software methods, functions, objects, and the overall structure and interaction of the program so that the resulting functionality will satisfy the users' requirements. Software modeling should address the entire software design including interfaces, interactions with other software, and all the software methods. In this project, software modelling is the main research method and it is going to be implemented in steps: first, gather the overall information about the system - the users, the included functions, the interface etc. Second, create models of functions, user-stories and interfaces. The last step would be to model the whole system, which includes connections between different parts of the system and representation of how the work would be organized.2 The method of software modeling is described in "UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language" by Martin Fowler.
Anticipated Results
The anticipated results of this project are: 
* Full analysis and understanding of the process of game development in RPG genre with all specifications that are bonded to development in this particular genre;
* Comparison of the functionality of existing project management systems and the functions that are required to carry out a successful development;
* Models of the stated functions and complete model of project management system specifically to use when developing a game in RPG genre.
Conclusion
This project can be applied to further development of the project management system, which can be used by small teams or studios to increase their chances of achieving success. Some of the anticipated results, such as full model of the process of game development could also be used in other research that addresses similar topics and is connected to videogame industries. An example of the topic that could potentially include some of the results of this project would be how to properly coordinate a team of developers and how to deal with certain bad situations during the development process, such as budget cuts or lack of time.
