INTRODUCTION
The starting point is to clarify what is meant by a competence. Most researchers use this term as a set of skills, abilities, and knowledge needed to perform a specific task. However, a group of psychologists expands this list with personal traits explaining it by the great influence they have on students’ behavior and as a result on their performance. Throughout this paper, the term of the competence will refer to a set of skills, abilities, knowledge, and personal traits.
Competences form the basis of the competence-based education (CBE), which is widely used by postsecondary institutions through the last decade. This approach focuses on students’ ability to behave adequately in different situation (even under uncertainty) rather than on the number of seat hours and amount of digested information. Thus, CBE assures the high quality of learning easing student transitions between school and work.
Competence-Based Business Game Studio, which is designed on the base of Higher School of Economics, is a good example of a system that meets the requirements of the approach mentioned above. This system aims to master a predetermined set of competences through the passage of the business game. Business game was chosen as it combines the autonomous environment without time or spatial restrictions and the active engagement of users, bridging the gap between theory and practice. 
To the moment, Competence-Based Business Game Studio has a prototype of the design module, which is responsible for the scenario creation; the subsystem holding the business game and module designing tests are developing at the moment. Yet, there is no module that could assess the quality of the game and the competence developed in particular.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Quality assessment has been an important research topic for as long as CBE programs have existed. In1976, John Harris and Stephen Keller outlined several key considerations in competence assessment and concluded that the major development effort in competence-based education should not be put into the design or choosing the materials to be used but into doing an appropriate performance assessment. 
Thus, monitoring and analysis module, which will assess the effectiveness of the study, is the part and parcel of any educational system such as the competence-based business game studio. Considering everything mentioned above, the research problem could be stated as the absence of appropriate methods and instruments for performance assessment within the competence-based business game studio.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The aim of this study is raised from the problem and is defined as the design of the subsystem within the competence-based business game studio that could monitor the results of the business game passage and then analyze them to give the report about the level of the developed competence. In order to achieve this aim some tasks are to be completed.
First, the subject area should be studied.by analyzing the best practices in the sphere of competence-based education, which includes reviewing the works of foreign and Russian researchers, the similar programs, and the methods applied in educational programs.
After the domain is scrutinized the relations between key entities of the business game: business process, operation, skills, abilities, and knowledge and competence should be explored, and on the basis of this study the formalized model should be created. 
This paper also attempts to find a universal algorithm, which will assess study effectiveness. This algorithm will be based on historical data of users’ scenario passage and on the analysis of a particular set of factors. The final stage is the monitoring and analysis module design.
METHODS
Different authors have measured the effectiveness of study in a variety of ways. Faria selected three most common kinds of studies that have attempted to assess the effectiveness. The first group examines the results and performance as variables in order to determine the learning process experienced by students, the second does it in the comparison with other educational methods, such as case studies, the third one tries to assess different variables such as students’ satisfaction with the learning process. 
In this study, the effectiveness of the learning process would be assessed by analyzing the competence development by the use of internal and external factors influencing the business game passage. Internal factors include those connected with the business game itself: area of knowledge, type of exercises, user-friendliness, realism of simulation and so on. These factors are partly described by Henry Adobor. External factors are divided into inputs typically associated with players (their background, character traits), resources used, and factors of external action, such as time limits and place.
Within this paper the main emphasis would be put on factors such as the time spent on fulfilling a particular task and the game total time, the correctness of the answer and the right order of the resources used, the number of attempts. 
In order to solve the problem related to the search of the optimal combination of skills and knowledge needed to perform a specific task the knowledge map of ARIS notation and competence matrix would be used. 
The chief purpose of the analysis module is the result exploration and report making. Reports should be made both for each single game passage and in historical perspective which means analyzing the users’ process throughout their engagement in a game. To analyze the results carefully data cleansing should be used, cleaned data is then processed with the use of BI-methods.
UML-diagrams describing the subsystem developed would be realized via MS Visual Studio 2015.
PREDICTED RESULTS
This study is the first contribution to the development of monitoring and analysis module. There are three practical results of this study. 
The first considerable result is the creation of the formalized model depicting the interdependencies between main entities. Moreover, the algorithm assessing the level of the competence mastered was developed. Another important result is the description of a subsystem to be developed, laying out functional and non-functional requirements and including a set of use cases that describe interactions the users will have with the program. 
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
The development of the whole monitoring and analysis subsystem takes time and considerable intellectual efforts. Before programming this subsystem a great work on methodology creation should be done: methods and instruments overview, the exploration of the relationship between key entities of the business game and formalized model creation, performance assessing algorithm design, BI-methods selection and so on.
This study is unable to encompass the entire module development, so module development and deployment stages are beyond the scope of this research but will be included in the following works.
CONCLUSION
The main goal of the current study was the monitoring and analysis subsystem design. In order to achieve it some challenges had to be taken into consideration. 
Above all, a clear link was created between the tasks students complete and the competences those tasks are designed to measure. Therefore, it was essential to create a formalized model that bundle tasks (operations in the business-game) with a set of competences. This model makes it possible to build a competence matrix for each business-game. 
Another challenge was to define variables to measure the level of the competence developed. Within this paper the main emphasis was put on factors such as the time spent on fulfilling a particular task and the game total time, the correctness of the answer and the right order of the resources used, the number of attempts. As soon as the variables were defined, the algorithm was created measuring the progress in competence development – in other words, it separates the competent users from the not-yet-competent.
Another important result is the description of a subsystem to be developed, laying out functional and non-functional requirements and including a set of use cases that describe interactions the users will have with the program. 
Even though this research covers only a part of the subsystem development, it could serve as a base for the future works and will contribute to the development of the competence-based business game studio at a whole.
