Smart City Information Model Design
One of the most important resources of the modern society is information. A person, who has information and can correctly select, filter and present it in a convenient for analysis form, has a significant advantage over those who do not know how to work with information and how important it is. Everyday people use a lot of information to solve daily problems or to help themselves to make some decisions.
Today most processes are at the automation stage. Decision making is not an exception. Within the framework of daily human actions, the analysis of information for decision-making no longer seems to be something from the distant future. Automated management already exists inside the companies or enterprises: various corporate information systems aimed at combining information into a single unit contribute to the convenient collection and transformation of information for analysis and decision making. 
If we consider the scale of the city, it is very difficult to manage it. Now there is no single developed information system aimed at supporting the management, development and stabilization of a city in Russia and in the world. This fact confirms the actuality of the project.
The object of the project is an information that is stored and processed in a smart city.
The subject of the project is an information model (digital twin) of a smart city.
During the research a model (digital twin) of a smart city will be developed. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to describe the business processes which taking place in a smart city and how the model could improve them. Then the objects of a smart city and their attributes will be described to figure out which information is necessary for storage and which should be obtained from the objects of a smart city. After that the database diagrams should be designed. There might be more than one database, so next step will be to describe how databases will be interact to each other. The united database diagrams will be considered as the model of smart city (digital twin).
The following information will be the result of this research: the digital twin of the smart city will be developed. 
Key Terms:
Smart city - it is an urban area that uses different types of electronic Internet of Things (IoT) sensors to collect data and then use insights gained from that data to manage assets, resources and services efficiently.
Digital twin - it is a virtual replica of physical device that data scientists and IT developers can use to run simulations before actual devices are built and deployed.
Literature Review
In this literature review will be explained how chosen sources of information are related to the project of smart city information model design.
Many attempts to conceptualize and develop smart cities have been made. During the project a number of scientific articles about smart cities have been analyzed. Scientists offer different explanations of the term "smart city" almost every day, and all of them can be organized chronologically, geographically or in terms of different domains. For example, Mircea Eremia and her colleagues analyze the meanings the term "smart city" had in different historical periods in different parts of the world [6]. In my project some of these explanations are used as the examples of a historical difference between "smart cities" today and "smart cities" a half of a century ago. Oleg Mkrtychev, Yuliya Starchyk and Svetlana Yusupova discuss the same topic in their work. Unlike Mircea Eremia, the Russian scientists look at the term "smart city" from the point of view of more formal groups than previous experts and compare Standardization Administration of China, British Standards Institution, Technical Management Board and other organization's views.
The literature also presents the constituent parts of the smart city system. The authors of describe how to compare different "smart cities". Researchers use a special "Weibull's three-parameter function" to calculate the dynamic of changes in the estimated parameters of the development of "smart cities". The scientists need to know a lot about the components of "smart cities" as systems to compare different examples of "cities". In the research of Vitalii Mishchenko and his colleagues the infrastructure of "smart city" is split up to 8 parts, and the importance of each of them is described. Another example of division of smart cities' system is presented by scientists Sunil Kumar and Manisha Jailia. They describe 6 parts of "smart cities", but some of them are the same as the previous authors use, for example, Smart Environment and Smart Economy. In the project these gradations will be used to figure out of what parts "smart city" consists of.
In spite of the fact that developing of smart cities' systems is state-of-the-art today, there is no drafted and embedded system to manage the city entirely. One of the reasons is the assumption that smart cities are not able to deal with extraordinal social and economic problems on their own. Other examples of problems with the implementation of smart cities are described by Johan Colding and his colleagues. In the article they raise questions about environmental friendship of smart cities; that devices grow too dominant in daily tasks and people became hopeless without them; about the fact that teenagers often do not know the dependency between behavior and consequences. All these problems, in the opinion of the authors, could retard the development and growth of the conception of "smart cities". 
However, some scientists already implement certain projects, which are connected with the conception of "smart city". 7 various examples are described by Lyudmila Vidiasova, Polins Kachurina and Felippe Cronemberger. They compare 7 cities from different countries and look, how "smart" are they. They use the same parts of smart cities as authors from and give points for each of them. "The smartest city" according this research is Songdo. Other authors use the term "city of towers" as an example of first "smart cities". They say that the implementation of this new city planning (in the last part of 20th century) started forming a new urban reality. This example is not the main idea of the article though the authors make a bibliometric analysis among 1067 scientific publications. Publications about "smart cities" are also analyzed in the article. Authors of this article make the conclusion that one of the most striking features of smart city research is the clear dominance of computing and engineering as the most contributing subject areas. 
Consequently, most of the research with a discernible approach were generally design oriented, focusing on developing technical artifacts. Perhaps more surprising is the gap between current smart cities research and root disciplines such as urban planning and more recently urban informatics. So, in my project this information can be used like the part of the justification of the topicality: a lot of scientific articles are being created every day, because the sphere of "smart cities" is very popular today. In these articles almost only advantages of "smart cities" are highlighted, but some authors make a critical review. Authors of conclude from their study that critical research efforts for better understanding of different aspects of existing smart cities are very few if available at all.
One of the few examples of critical articles is the paper of Simon Joss and his colleagues. The problem of smart cities, in the opinion of experts, that there shouldn't be one common vision of "smart cities" conception: each city should develop with unique pace and take note of the specific problems of the city. So, this information also can be useful in my project: I should justify how developing system will be integrated in extremely various cities. 
Overall, in the literature review describes how chosen sources of information could be used to making the research about smart cities.
Methods
To reach the goal of the research it is needed to do some tasks. Several methods were used during this process.
The main method of research that will be used is modeling, because the result of the research will be the model of digital twin of a smart city. A model is a new object that reflects the essential features the studied object, phenomenon or process. Based on this, the following definition of modeling can be given - modeling is a method of cognition consisting in the creation and study of models. In this research the process of modeling will be based on the description of the business processes taking place in a smart city and the description of the objects of a smart city, their attributes. Having studied the business processes and the parts of the city in detail, it will be possible to understand how the city functions overall that will help to develop an accurate and close to reality model (digital twin) of smart city. Business processes can be described using different notations, for example UML, eEPS or IDEF0.
The next method that should be used is synthesis. Synthesis is a method that involves combining previously selected parts (sides, signs, properties or relationships) of an object into a single whole. This method will help to determine how different types of databases will be connected. The similar parts of databases will be joined and the result of this will be one big database that will be described by the diagram (or the number of diagrams).
Descriptive method is a type of scientific method, which is a system of procedures for collecting, primary analysis and presentation of data and their characteristics. The description as the method of research will be used for illustration of business processes, objects of a smart city, how different types of databases can be combined. All these parts of research should be detailed before other methods will be used.
Results Anticipated
Summing up, I would like to note the things that will indicate that the project is completed. The result of the project is a model (digital twin) of smart city. So, if the set of database diagrams that explains how data in a smart city is stored and using is created, the goal of the project is reached.
In addition, intermediate results can be considered. Firstly, business processes taking place in a smart city are described "as is" (how they are working now) and "to be" (how the model will improve them). Secondly, the objects which smart city consists of are described. Based on this the types of databases are selected, and the databases structures are defined. Thirdly, diagrams of databases are designed and united in one big diagram that describes whole smart city.
The result of this project could be used as the foundation of the development of the system that is able to manage whole city on its own. The system might be very helpful to governance, because using automated systems excludes the human factor in decision-making.
Conclusion
If the project achieve success it can be, firstly, used by business analysts to make a model of the system of smart city. This developed system could help city-managers to improve the process of city-administration. Secondly, developers who elaborate the applications of a smart-city system can use the database (digital twin of smart city) to make the applications more informative and useful for clients.
