INTRODUCTION
The theme of my coursework is Scientific events accounting information system. The subject area is education and information technology. 
A lot of people working in education sphere receive messages about scientific events or conferences roughly speaking once per half day. Most of these conferences are not interesting for the person, but may be interesting for another. There is a situation that people who would like to visit or participate the conference do not know about it at all. The problem is that a receiving messages takes analyzing in order to be sure that conference is needless or necessary, selection of people who probably want to receive the message, drafting the mailing list and sending message. In many cases second and subsequent steps are missed because of its complexity and monotony. Here is the main advantage of this business process. It relatively is easy to automate. 
The main goal of my coursework is training for practical employment by creating the computer software solving the problem which was indicated above. 
Argument consultant suggested me and my classmate three theme. At the time I seemed this theme the most clear and it was my main reason to choose this one. In addition, the theme is well appropriate for training. 
In order to reach the goal it is necessary to create a functioning software by automating described single step of process. The process is easy to automate by constructing database. The finish application should meet an argument consultant’s requirements. At the end of work I should get much experience and knowledge. 
There are a lot of sites which have already realized the same functions, so it will be easy to imagine the final result.
Therefore, we have to admit that the academic work has minimal practice value and is designed for education. This work help us to increase the level of my and perhaps someone’s skill. 
PROBLEM STATEMENT
The ideal scenario involves practically infinite database model with countless options for choosing people who want to go to the scientific event exactly. But it is not worth so much time and effort. We need to do whole work for the semester through academic days. Consequently, we should set real goals for our work.
For example, we can reduce number of options to several. The efficiency of program do not radically change and we can reach the goal for allotted time. In addition, we do not need a lot of tables in the database and can complete whole work with approximately fifteen tables.
If we had enough time it would be possible to develop filtering and searching module for more detailed selection of people. It is kind of artificial intelligence like a human which knows whom and what message need to send.
OBJECTIVE AND AIMS
It was set an academic objective –  to design database accounting information about conferences and create an application basing on database. In order to reach the objective we should take a list of steps:
1. define subject area;
2. describe the process of normalization step by step;
3. create database in SQL Management Studio;
4. Create report;
5. develop requests;
6. create Windows Form Application using this database.
METHOD
The subject is message about the conference. The subject area is students, professors in HSE-Perm and messages about conferences. In order to filter people who are interested in scientific event from the rest we should create some key tables. The table Clients will contain information about potential receiver. The table Interests will contain information who is interesting in certain theme of conference. The table Conferences will contain information about past and coming conferences. The table Themes will contain information about discussed subjects. Then we should create indirect tables and define fields.
The next step is normalization. We should convert our tables in third normal form. In order to get first normal form it is necessary to be sure that database is elementary. It means that every field contain only one value and primary key define non key attributes of record. We can get second normal form getting rid of non-trivial functional dependency from primary key. This process is called decomposition. Finally, we should detect and delete all transitive dependency. 
After that we should transfer all tables and references into selected environment.
As you can see on the structure of database the table distribution contain results. In order to fill it we should design a SQL report. The result should show names of people who would like to visit corresponding conferences.
Reports help us to see the table in database more evidently, so it is one of the most important part in coursework.
The next step is creation windows form application. C# was selected as a programming language. At first we create main form which has buttons leading to other forms with tables. Then we create eleven table of the same type. Every of them has table and tools for editing.
RESULTS
At the end of the last step we get an application which could be used for acceleration of distribution messages about conferences among students and professors. It has convenient interface, reports and requests for filtering. A product requirements document was composed in the process of creation the application. 
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS
Time constraints of the semester require less time than may be ideal for an application development. It takes much more time for creation real application comparing with academic application. Taking into account that the through the application creation there are a lot of other subjects which claim attention. Consequently, it is impossible to do better than word.
The main strength of this method is that using Visual Studio and C# it could be easier to create standard application, because there are a lot of useful tools and standard solutions. Another strength of my method is simplicity of the problem. It makes my coursework clear.
CONCLUSION
An academic objective had been reached by consecutive steps performing. At the beginning the subject area was analyzed, the database was designed and normalized in SQL Management Studio. A product requirements document was composed. An application was created basing on the database. Requests and reports was created with the help of Microsoft Visual Studio tools. Within the academic work we get necessary skills and much experience.

