Introduction
Background. The lightweight methodologies in project management have "gained considerable recognition from the software engineering society in the last few years". Nowadays, research has shown that Agile is the most popular model used in the IT-industry and it "will define this field in the next five years". It is a preferred methodology because now continuous customer feedback and rapid fabrication are more and more important, and often at the start of the project there is no "clear image of what the final creation should look like", while Agile iterative approach allows gathering customer requirements during all project, involves continuous introduction and product changing. 
Nowadays, almost every company uses different free or paid project management tools. There are many Agile project management applications such as Agilean, Wrike, Trello, Jira, Backlog and so on. 
Problem Statement. Project Solutions is an IT company for which the Agile project management needs to be automated. The company uses Scrum, the most widely used Agile method. As part of this method, the company introduced such events as Sprint Planning, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective. One of the basic guidelines for Scrum is workflow visualization, which is typically done with the Kanban board, defined all the required steps of the development process. 
Now the project management software that is used in Project Solutions is 1C: Document Management. However, this program has some limitations. Firstly, it provides opportunities to plan and control project activities using only the Waterfall model. Secondly, it contains no convenient visualizing tools except for the Gantt chart that is a special Waterfall tool and does not support sprinting. What is more, all tasks that employees need to perform are on the general list and they are poorly organized, which slows down the search. Many workers use other programs such as Trello and Bitrix24 to organize their work but the company does not want to apply other applications because all the information about their projects is in 1C: Document Management. What is more, such tools are expensive and they want to save money.
To address these limitations, it is necessary to organize Agile project management process in 1C: Document Management, to visualize it and make the user interface on task list more friendly and convenient.
Aim and objectives. The aim of this project is development of an Agile project management module in 1C: Document Management. In order to achieve this aim it is necessary to attain three main objectivities, which determinate the structure of this project: (1) to analyze the subject area; (2) to design an Agile project management module; (3) to develop this module.
Delimitations of the Study. As part of this project, it is planned to implement the Kanban Board, which helps to plan and visualize the sprint, as well as modify and develop a new Gantt Chart, which is used to track sprint tasks and evaluate sprint results at the Sprint Retrospective Meeting, in 1C: Document Management. What is more, the developed Agile project management module is to contain such Sprint Planning Meeting tools as Product Backlog Prioritization tool, which helps to sort project tasks and choose the most important of them in the current Sprint.
Professional Significance. In this project, an attempt to improve the Waterfall Gantt Chart for the Agile use will be made. Thus, the significance of this project is the new application of such well-known project management tools as Kanban-board, Gantt Chart which allows the company to efficiently and conveniently manage projects using Agile methodology in 1C: Document Management.
Literature Review
In this literature review, the object area is analyzed. It is important to understand what processes and tools should be automated and to indicate the basic requirements for the developed module. Firstly, it is necessary to compare two basic project management methodologies: Agile and Waterfall one to justify their use in the company. Secondary the useful tools of the Scrum methodology are considered in order to indicate the main features of the developed module. After that, the examples of the Gantt Chart in Agile project management are considered to borrow ideas and to identify is it an appropriate tool for the module or not. Finally, the Product Backlog Prioritization methods are studied to implement one in the module.
Agile and Waterfall Methodologies Comparison. There are two main methodologies of project management: heavyweight (Waterfall) and lightweight. The A.M. Dima's research conducted on specialists with different experience from 19 international IT companies of different sizes revealed that 68% of departments use Agile project management methodology and 67% of others, which works after 2013, use Waterfall with characteristics indicating an orientation towards Agile model.
In his study, the author considers these approaches. The Waterfall model has a sequential, down-flow structure where all the software development phases executed one by one without repetitions or combinations of the phases. All the requirements and prerequisites of the project are indicated and documented in the first phase and all of them are clear before development, which makes this model simple to employ and document. However, the authors note the biggest limitation of this methodology: it does not allow returning to the early phase. W.V. Casteren in his paper marks that if requirements are not well de?ned or can be changed during the project, the Waterfall model is unsuitable. The author makes a conclusion that often software developed in this method does not match the customer needs and contains many extra unused features.
As A. Dubey report, Agile is an iterative approach that involves the working software built and implemented in the customer equipment after each iteration. This methodology implies experience exchange between developers, continuous communication with customer and demonstration of working prototype as the best way to gather requirements. Besides, Agile development attends to a quick reaction to changes (Dubey, 2015). W.V. Casteren reveals that Agile approach is more suitable for small projects that do not require plan-driven bureaucracy when the customer is always ready to communicate face-to-face with the team and has all the required knowledge about the automated object. It is also the preferred method when the documentation is not required and requirements are rapidly changing.
The primary analysis of Project Solutions management revealed that Agile methodology is more appropriate approach there because it is a small company, where programmers and managers often communicate with the customer during the project, customers usually do not know what they exactly want before the project, but they are ready to communicate, check program's prototypes and do not require any documentation besides user manual.
The Main Scrum Tools Overview. The Scrum Guide describes that Scrum - is the most popular Agile framework, which comprises special roles, events, and artifacts. Scrum prescribes the following roles: Product Owner, who is responsible for Product Backlog, cross-functional Development Team, and Scrum Master, who "is responsible for daily meetings and solving non-technical problems of the team".
The Guide also contains a list and descriptions of five Scrum Events. The first of them is the Sprint which is a fixed-length iteration that ends with a potentially releasable and implemented product. It has its own goals and contains four other events including everyday meetings - Daily Scrum. Sprint Planning is the meeting at the beginning of the sprint at which the team should decide what tasks from the Product Backlog they will do at the current sprint and move them to the Sprint Backlog. In Sprint Review stakeholders meet with the team to check the prototype and return feedback. In the Sprint Retrospective, the team meets after a sprint to discuss its results and feature improvements.
The Guide refers to the Product and Sprint Backlogs as artifacts. The first one is the prioritized and sorted list of tasks that should be done in the current project. The second one is a list of tasks that are planned to be undertaken in the current sprint. This list is defined in Sprint Planning and its labor input should not exceed a predetermined threshold.
However, there are other Scrum artifacts. L. Brezocnik highlights a Scrum Board or Kanban Board (Figure 1), in which columns define all the required steps of the sprint development process. The first column "To Do" contains tasks from the Sprint Backlogs and the last one contains completed tasks. A. Henriksen's research (Henriksen, 2016), which was conducted on two IT projects of different companies, revealed such benefits of Kanban Board as iteration's transparent for a team, work's visualization and ability to overview the current status of a sprint.
Figure 1. The Kanban Board
In conclusion, this overview helps to identify the main actors (Scrum roles), main use-cases (Scrum events), main objects (Scrum artifacts) of the developed module and their features.
Applying Gantt Chart in Agile. Although Gantt Chart is a classic tool for a Waterfall project management model, some researchers believe, it can be very useful in Agile. So, the article (Karlsson, 2018) explains that the main drawback of the Waterfall model is its early detailed planning. Howbeit, the author emphasizes that is not a drawback of the tool. In addition, J. Karlsson is convinced that the diagram is useful for Agile methodology by correcting such defects as the absolute absence of early planning and a common vision of the project and its goals. 
Woo in her article lists the advantages of using Gantt Chart in Agile project management, noted by her customers, such as visualization of deadlines and project progress, the presence of a clear project plan. In addition, the author talks about advantages for her team, such as the ability to look into subsequent sprints and plan the members working time by knowing task deadlines.
As can be seen from these articles, Gantt Chart is a very useful tool that can be used in the developed Agile project management module.
Product Backlog Prioritization. S. Dutt marks that prioritization of the Product Backlog is very important to point as it not only making the list of tasks ordered and convenient but also prioritization helps to improve customer satisfaction, manage constraints and keep on schedule. The author proposes the priority quantification model to calculate the task's priority. Firstly, it is necessary to choose the criteria of prioritization and rate their importance on a scale from 1 to 10. S. Dutt identifies the following criteria: customer satisfaction, which is the most important one, business benefits with 8 points and complexity with 5, and also offers some others: measure of success, cost-benefit analysis, difficult-to-implement features, effort for implementation, high-risk features, frequency of use, stability and so on. In the next step, the author proposes to evaluate the tasks in the Backlog on a scale of 1 to 10 for each of the selected criteria, multiply by the weight of this criterion, and then sum the resulting products. The resulting number is the priority of the task by which they need to be ordered in the Product Backlog list.
Other studies suggest other criteria for Product Backlog prioritization. For example, a literature review of 13 papers indicates that the most reported criteria are business value, dependency, and effort. P. Kukhnavets in his article also emphasizes the need to prioritize the backlog. However, he suggests only two criteria: Value and Effort. The author offers not to order but to visualize using Backlog Priority Chart and divide tasks into four groups: Quick Wins which are important and simple, Big Bets which are valuable but not easy to implement, effortless but not significant Maybes and useless complicated Time Sinks.
The quantification model, offered by S. Dutt, was chosen to implement in the developed module, while the necessary criteria for this method will be chosen after interview with Project Solution managers.
Methods
In order to achieve the set aim to develop a project management module, there are used the following methods in accordance with the stages of the system development life cycle.
At the stage of analysis, the requirements for the system are analyzed. In the beginning, it is necessary to gather customer requirements and the method of interviewing with the company managers was chosen to do it. During the interview, each stakeholder is going to be asked questions about his role in the project management process, the tasks he performs, the main disadvantages of the existing system, as well as possible wishes and ideas for improving it. What is more, in order to formulate the final requirements for the system, it is necessary to study the existing solutions and identify their strengths and weaknesses. An analysis of the documentation and articles on the programs are expected to be used for this since these programs are expensive and there is no way to install them. At the end of this stage, subject area models will be built: the Use-case diagram for systematizing system requirements, the "AS-IS" activity diagram for modeling processes in the company and "TO-BE" one to model processes of user interaction with the developed system.
At the design stage, it is necessary to build the UML Component diagram and the Database schema for displaying the current and projected object models of the system, as well as the Flow chart for designing algorithms. 
Development of the module will be in 1C configurator, directly in the copy of the 1?: Document Management configuration provided by the Project solutions. Manual testing will be used at the last stage of this project, as it requires fewer implementation costs than the test automation. Black-box testing is expected to be used to verify the performance of individual written functions, as well as Use-case testing to verify that the program covers all the requirements.
Results Anticipated
The result of this project is to be an Agile project management module developed and implemented in the 1C: Document Management system in the company Project Solutions which implements such tools as the Kanban board, Product Backlog Prioritization tool, as well as the improved for Agile project management methodology Gantt Chart.
This program is to meet the requirements identified in the subject area analysis stage. This stage results will be Terms of reference drawn up by GOST 19.201-78, UML Use-case diagram, which displays the system functional requirements, UML "AS-IS" Activity diagram, which displays the processes taking place in the company, and a "TO-BE" one, which displays user interaction with the system.
The design stage results will be UML Component diagram, Database schema, and Flow charts designed by GOST 19.701-90.
The result of the development stage is going to be the extension of the standard configuration of 1C: Document management. This program will be checked for compliance with the requirements identified in the analysis phase. Besides, user and programmer manuals will be compiled by RD 50-34.698-90 and GOST 19.504-79 at the end of this stage.
Conclusion
The module developed in this project is aimed at convenient and efficient Agile project management in the company Project Solutions. Firstly, it should significantly accelerate the processes of assessing the priority and labor costs of tasks, as well as filling the Sprint Backlog. Also, it is expected to increase the efficiency of tracking tasks of the sprint and their lead time, allow an analysis of the results of the current sprint at the Sprint Retrospective Meeting. What is more, it will provide employees with Kanban board to visualize and sort a huge number of tasks, which is to reduce the time spent on searching. Finally, as being implemented in an existing system 1C: Document management, this module is to allow the company to reduce the cost of purchasing new software.
