Introduction
Scientific knowledge is shared via a growing number of articles written in academic English. International teams usually use English as a lingua franca to communicate as it is the most widespread second language in the world. An enormous number of scientific conferences is held in English language, that is the reason a researcher competent in academic English writing can participate in world-class events.
Still, academic writing in English remains problematic even for advanced speakers. As a rule, common school and university English courses make little to no effort in educating the students on academic writing. As a consequence, the learners tend to be less proficient in academic writing compared to other linguistic tasks (listening comprehension, reading, etc).
Currently, the educational process is almost entirely manual. Writing tasks usually require more time and effort from both teachers and students in comparison, for instance, to reading or speaking tasks. The texts written by the students are to be thoroughly read and checked in order for the teacher to conduct a full and objective assesment of the work. However, the teacher is generally unable to verify all the students' works equally carefully due to time and attention limitations. This way the assessment of the work become more shallow and approximate.
There is a possibility to determine a style of a given text automatically using corpuses of academic texts. A corpus is a collection of texts (in this paper it is academic texts that are investigated) with their unique features. A given text is analyzed by means of criteria (or markers) prepared a priori by the experts. After text examination, the system formulates recommendations that instruct the end user on how to modify the text in order for to bring it closer to the academic writing style. It is certain that users differ in their English level, therefore the recommendations given by the system are individual.
The usage of the analytic system is going to boost the efficiency of both teachers and students. After the analysis, the system exposes the weak points in the text enabling the teacher to concentrate on these. This does not mean the teacher would be able to eliminate the need to read the whole work though; the teacher can give more precise and specific advice to the student. The system being described is a novel way of teaching English, although its basic parts are well-known and commonly used.
The problem of the research is to design and implement a back end of a system capable of academic text analysis based on academic text corpuses. The scope of the system is academic writing analysis, according to which recommendations for an end user are formulated. The project includes a similar malfunctioning system which is intended to be replaced by the system obtained as a result of this research. The following tasks are to be completed:
1. Subject area analysis, analogues overview.
2. System requirement formulation.
3. Software system design.
4. Application interface design.
5. Software system implementation.
6. System debugging and testing.
7. System deployment.
The report consists of three parts: task analysis; system design; system implementation, testing and deployment. The "Problem Analysis" chapter examines the subject area in detail, searches for analogues, and sets requirements for the software system. The "System Design" chapter concentrates on the step-by-step system desing, design stage model creation that are essential to system implementation. The "Implementation of the system..." chaper focuses on the processes of system implementation, debugging, testing, and deployment.
Literature review
The literature review was conducted to gather information available in the field of study. The project discussed in this paper is a part of an ongoing research, which is conducted in an affiliation with the Higher School of Economics. There are parts of the system implemented, and papers published. Particularly, the conference proceedings discuss the analytic system development in detail, presenting various details of text evaluation methodology, and some of the functions that the system is supposed to be performing. This paper is a foundation of the current study and uses the genre markers developed for the GATE library as a main means of text analysis.
The source states that the students' proficiency in writing and related skills in usually inferior to other communication tasks. This is particularly due to the teaching methodology that focuses on listening, speaking, grammar, etc., while often regarding writing skills as supplementary ones. The author describes several teaching approaches and in conclusion proposes a fusion technique that is said to perform better. Approaches presented here include the product approach, which is essentially a set of patterns, following which a student can obtain a text. The author claims that its efficiency is highly doubted, and it only works when the students are exposed to the texts written by natives. The next is the process approach which concentrates on how a text is written, not the result. Finally, the paper suggests a hybrid way that joins the process and the genre approaches, where the latter is like the product approach but places greater emphasis on social context when writing. This way of thinking can help to eradicate frequently recurring patterns which occur in the product approach, while establishing a natural flow for a student's writing.
The research conducted in aims at investigation into what the difficulties are when writing an academic text as perceived by foreign learners. The survey was conducted at the university with the use of questionnaires. The results turned out to be pointing at similar obstacles, taking into consideration learners' different contexts of their previous learning. Among the difficulties, language use, coherence, cohesion, selection of relevant sources was listed among the most complex issues. The least problematic was reported to be paraphrasing, referencing, and citations.
The paper focuses on identifying genre signals in academic writing. This research is especially important as its objective is directly related to the current study objective. It is stated that there are recognizable patterns found in an academic text that may vary with an author while being a marker of the genre. While a concrete author may have a recognizable and unique style, texts of different genres written by her each expose identifiable signals of their respective genre.
The interaction of a writer, reviewer, and reader is widely discussed in. The article discusses the methods of improving academic writing. The paper can help to formulate the criteria using which the recommendations is to be generated. There is also the supporting source that summarizes the natural language processing research, overviewing its progress from past days up to the modern time.
The research distinguishes between native speakers and foreign users. The analysis conducted here shows that non-native speakers tend to produce longer and syntactically more complex sentences in order to be understood better.  This demarcation could serve to look deeper into learners' texts and help generate more precise recommendations. 
The usage of idioms in the academic context is broadly discussed in. It is perceived that idioms being a somewhat vague language are rare in academic writing. However, the study shows that idioms are quite common, especially opaque ones. This study can be a source to providing recommendations on which idioms and how to use.
An academic writing assistant system is described in. Although not a direct analog, the system described here is an interesting case to study as it shares the similar purpose of helping students in academic writing. Basically, it is a vocabulary recommendation system that can help the users pick the right word to express their thoughts.
The research elaborates on nominalization assistance system development. Nouns and nominalized verbs are commonly found in academic texts, making them basically a marker on their own. They are usually more abstract and convey objective tone, which suits an academic text very well. Thus, having such a subsystem can improve the quality of recommendations.
Methods
The problem of analytic system development is well-researched, and we had a choice of several approaches to creating a one among others: a monolithic system functioning offline, client-server architecture with an offline client, a microservice-oriented system with a web-interface. Each of the approaches has its pros and cons, which will be covered in the next few paragraphs.
Creating an offline system has its major advantages, which include it being robust and more efficient than an online system. The data the system is to work with is thought to be quite large, therefore a faster application provide an obvious bonus of a user waiting less. However, some serious problems arise, one of which is possible updates and version control.
The system is to be used by English teachers and, possibly, learners, who can be in different education institutions or even cities, therefore, there is a great need for the portability of the system. The web-based solutions are getting more popular nowadays because they provide service virtually all over the world eliminating the need to do installation and setting it up. The only requirements are an up-to-date web-browser and a stable internet connection.
The next aspect to mention is that it is being developed by a team of students, where a team member is expected to work on one of the modules. The microservice-oriented system can be broken into modules quite naturally, which leads to modules being fully isolated. A module communicates to another module via protocols, a strict set of rules and conventions to convey information. This approach minimizes errors in code, separates logical pieces of the system, and allows for extendibility. The drawback is a decrease in efficiency.
The choice was made in favor of microservices as they provide all that is necessary for the project: the system would be available everywhere, it can be extended with little effort, and there are benefits for team development process.
The project design is planned to be carried out in Visio. The application can create various diagrams throughout the whole development cycle, whereas its close analogues are usually suited for specific steps in the process.
The system is expected to use "GATE", an open library for language processing. The project is several years old, and the previous team has developed plugins for the library. Additionally, it is efficient, stable, and portable, hence it is nearly a perfect fit for the project.
The toolchain that is going to be used for the development is Visual Studio. The Studio provides the best tooling for C# development, as well as deployment and testing tasks, while C# is regarded as one of the most expressive and powerful mainstream programming languages now.
Anticipated results
There are a few so-called artifacts expected as a result of the research. The artifacts differ in form, purpose, and the stage of the project. The main outcome considered is the web-based system that can process academic texts and analyze its content according to the given text corpuses. The web-portal is expected to be fully functional, robust, i.e. having no fatal defects that disable a user to interact with the system, efficient, and user-friendly. 
The system is the central object of the project, therefore there is a lot of artifacts that aim to support its development. To start with, there are various diagrams that describe the state of the system or its internal structure; they all have different functions and are employed on different stages of the development. To give a few examples, there is the Use Case diagram that is the product of investigation into how a user would interact with the system, which is basically a description of the system's functions. The Class diagram overviews the system's static structure in terms of classes, its data, and inter-class relationships.
Finally, the project is expected to have the written documentation that is either an application for a diagram or a standalone document. The Subject Area Analysis stage documents describe functions and elaborate on use cases for it to be clearer and more precise. There are also documents that specify some design subtleties not given by diagrams, Implementation stage documents that describe the process of development in detail. Moreover, the project is expected to have a User Guide and an API Reference.
Conclusion
The academic writing analysis web-portal aims at assisting its end-users in improving their texts for those to be closer to the academic style. The results are expected to be the system and a variety of by-products including documentation and diagrams. Ideally, the system would boost the efficiency of both teachers and learners by giving precise and specific recommendations on how to enhance a text.
