INTRODUCTION
The increasing document collection storages requires intellectual electronic document management systems, because in the case of such significant amounts of data manual control becomes fairly ineffective. Data management systems include a vital document retrieval subsystem, the main function of which is to give a document collection in response to a users’ request that refers to those documents that would contain the information desired by the user. The retrieval systems usually base on intelligent analysis and processing techniques that can be followed for getting an efficient result. However, in reality searching results frequently do not satisfy a user, because not only and all relevant documents are retrieved.
Similar situation happens in the Higher School of Economics. Professors collect huge amounts of published scientific literature included bachelor’s and master’s research papers. This scientific background usually is applied for the next generation research. A professor needs a possibility to easily navigate through document collection. However, they always organize document collections manually, because of document management system lack. For this reason, professors spend a lot of time while document classifying and the classification result is not so high. Existing systems are not reasonably suitable, because the current search area as scientific is fairly specific. In the case, it would be a rational decision to implement such information system that would optimize the process. Before the development and implementing stages a system must be projected with analyzing the most appropriate information retrieval approaches that we intend to do.
With rapid Web development, Web search engines evolve considerably, but the search engines for local storages are not quiet advanced. Thus, this research is directed primarily at local search engines.
Dario Lucarella emphasized that the most commercially available systems rely upon Boolean logic end exact matching searching techniques. He blamed the first one for the necessity to formulate a query consisted of single search terms, denoting concepts, combined together via Boolean operators. Thus, ordinary people asking for information have not an exact picture of what they are looking for that it becomes difficult to formulate their queries in terms of a rigid and unnatural Boolean notation. So, in his system he applied an exact matching approach with The Vector Space Model. He proved the choice by the fact that in the case retrieval operation involves the identification of those documents in the collection which exhibit a higher degree of resemblance with the submitted query. In contrast to Dario Lucarella, R.Aravindhan and Mano Chitra found that semantic based search engines provide more accurate search results than the normal keywords search engines (exact matching search engines). They pointed out some reasons such as polysemy words, problems with synonymy and problems with traditional information retrieval technology. In the research R.Aravindhan and Mano suggested that the ontology based search engines can be used for solving traditional search engine restrictions and getting more relevant searching results. Vyachslav Lanin and Elena Mozzherina lend support to the previous researcher’s findings. They also reveal agent- and ontology-based approaches for intellectual search.
Thus, ontology applying is suggested to be more effective approach for raising search results relevance and a user satisfaction with data collection retrieved in response to a query. With utilizing an ontology, the semantics of the document data and its structure can be described. Thus, it allows to analyze text not only with using exact matching a query keyword, but also semantically. Researchers, who investigated ontology based search engines, concentrated mainly on ontology implementation in the Web, but the local search engines were not mentioned at all. However, local document management systems are confronted with the similar problems that should be solved. In this case, further investigation needed in order to identify an approach that will satisfy current specifications.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
Information technologies facilitates routine and time-consuming processes. Search in huge amounts of scientific document collections is the one of them that professors are confronted regularly. It can be optimized by implementing an intelligent search system. The system gives document collection in response to a user request sorted by the relevance. The relevance rate is highly reliable because documents are analyzed semantically through the content, not only a heading. Also there is a convenient function that allows to perform advanced search by a publication or article name, an author name, etc. These functions would save professor’s time and allow them to find inside knowledge that is practically impossible to gather manually. However, current situation is not so optimistic. Professors classify their storages without an information system help. It leads to document duplication that holds additional memory; spending a lot of time and effort on searching, but at the same time results are not satisfying. Thus, tutors demand maximum effort and obtain minimum result. Existing search engines are not installed because they do not satisfy professor’s needs. The search area collected only scientific literature is incredibly precise. This is why traditional systems do not give high quality search results. They do not adjusted for the search in such conditions. In such situation, the search area specification should be revealed. To do this we need to analyze conditions and to investigate such search approach that will give a highly relevant results. This method and other search engine specification should be taken into consideration while projecting a system model. Only such system, which will be designed specifically will raise the search process efficiency. 
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
Considering all the above, there is a fundamental necessity in designing specifically advanced search engine architecture for the High School of Economics professors local search.
The main objective is to analyze current search specification and to construct search module architecture. Thus, additional aims are to analyze existing programs from the point of view of required functionality and to consider existed approaches of intelligent search.
PROCEDURES
While software design process, the system requirements are translated into a representation of software data, components and interfaces. The software design document shows how the software system will be structured to satisfy the requirements. This textual description may be exhibited by the graphical model in a picture. A software design document generally includes relevant goal and functional and non-functional requirements; static structure such as components, interfaces, dependences; dynamic behavior described how components interacts; data model or external interfaces. These descriptions usually are given at an abstract level. The purpose is to give the reader a broad general understanding of the system or component.
In order to complete a list of system requirements, we need to consider carefully specific conditions that take place.
Firstly, if a professor remembers a precise document name, a system should retrieve the document called similarly to the request. In the case, when a professor remembers the context of a document, the system should search through the context using intelligent search approaches. Besides, the search system should provide a professor with extended search function. As a result, they would have an opportunity to find a document using an article/publication name, author name or publisher name. Moreover, in the local full-text database restricted document format range is stored. It includes such text formats as doc (document), docx (office open xml), pdf (portable document format) and djvu (djvu format). Consequently, the system should operate with these formats in order to build an indexing file for the future search. One more significant specification is the document order in a search result list. The amount of documents stored is huge, therefor the order is extremely important. One document might be more relevant than another, and it should be higher in a result list. The relevance rate evaluates the closeness degree between a user request and a document content.
Analyzed all these specifications we can formulate general system requirements and to think about approaches that might be applied. Firstly, a search function through a document name should be supported. Secondly, content search should be realized. Thirdly, a possibility to find a document by an article/publication name, author name or publisher name should be provided. The requirements above can be realized with the use of traditional semantic indexing approach and kind of intelligent search approach, for example, with the use of ontologies. Furthermore, the system should calculate a relevance rate and to retrieve result document collections sorted descending. In the case, an indexing file can be used for evaluating the frequency found in the document query keywords. One more investigation is needed to define an instrument or an approach realized that allows a system to get inside the document for building indexing file.
In order to define approaches for requirements above an in-depth analysis will be investigated. The analysis results will be in detail described in the software design document and in a constructed model. It will be meaningful contribution in the prosecco of developing and implying the search university system.
PREDICTED RESULTS
The overall outcome of the research assumes development the software design document. It allows to understand in detail not only general concept of the system but also specific approaches that satisfy requirements. To describe approaches becomes possible due to the deep analysis of approaches existed. There are some systems developed with roughly the same functional possibilities. They can be considered as a base for future revision. It might facilitate the process of developing the system itself, because in the case the previous generation experience is applied.
LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
Time constraints of the semester require less time than may be ideal for development incredibly detailed system architecture. We plan to define approaches for database level and program level, and also some kind of these parts integration. The model will be described at an abstract level without delving into program realization details, if even the system will be partly realized.
CONCLUSION
In the current conditions every user stores huge amount of row data, which indicates practically useful knowledge. However, data retrieval becomes more and more challenging task that requires investing time and effort. Roughly the same situation happens in High School of Economics. Professors do not have a search engine for document retrieval in the scientific local full-text database. Such instruments have developed, but they are ineffective because of specific search conditions. For this reason, extensive research should be performed in order to reveal specific requirements and to choose necessary approaches for the future search system. Search conditions are characterized by such parameters as document formats, search features and search results representation. They further transformed into system requirements. In order to understand, how the requirements might be realized, we need to conduct a research through existed theoretical and practical approaches. There is a general consensus among researchers about the need that traditional search approaches have to evolve, so there are researchers such as Dario Lucarella, Mano Chitra, Vyacheslav Lanin and others, who also bring contribution in the topic development.
All the research results will be declared in the software design document, that will help to understand deeply the general system concept and also approaches that should be applied in order to comply with the system requirements. The main system parts and integration between them will be presented in a pictured model. The projecting stage is a necessity for the development of the target system. If some methods are realized and might be utilized, we plan to apply the previous program realization with the future modification to our conditions, because it helps to save time on realizing existed parts. Limited research time does not allow to develop fairly detailed model and to perform total realization.
The university problem of ineffective document retrieval can be solved with the specialized search system implementation. Current research is the first step towards the goal. Any system development assumes requirement formulation, concept creation and development the software design document and the technical specification. In this way, the research results are necessary for the future development. We intend to continue the work in the future and to realize the system that will facilitate search process for the university professors.
