INTRODUCTION 
Background. Any company is interested in improving labor productivity and the quality of its products. The management of SIBUR Holding believes that the employees involved in the activities of the company are more efficient. The management of the holding decided to use software tools to encourage non-working activity of employees and simplify the creation of events. The developed system should help employees more often participate in the life of the enterprise and establish corporate relations, thereby increasing the overall involvement of the entire team.
Problem statement. At the moment, the management of the holding holds events on its own, employees do not have a mechanism to create their own events and, moreover, to finance them. The management wants to give employees the opportunity to independently gather for events and receive funding from them from the budget. It's impractical to hire special people in the organization, since there are many teams in it, and the holding is located in different cities, so it's easier for people to create an event from a mobile device and send an invitation to colleagues. Thus, circles, interest sections, trips, training seminars in the company will have the opportunity to develop, employees will become happier, and management will receive an increase in production indicators.
Delimitations of the study. During the work, the process of conducting interviews with the customer, compiling requirements based on interviews, designing a database of server and client applications, designing a web API specifically for mobile devices, developing a server application on the Linux platform designed for multiple user access, developing data repositories will be considered client applications, platform integration testing.
Professional Significance. In the field of increasing employee engagement, there are ready-made software solutions, but since the system works with the personal data of employees, it should be as safe as possible. The management decided to deploy the server part of the system on its servers, which does not support existing software solutions. In addition, to protect personal data, the company's management absolutely needs access to the source code of the entire system. Therefore, existing solutions on the market are not suitable for the company. Also on the territory of the enterprise there is an internal network, so the application must be able to work without connecting to the Internet, functioning only on the SIBUR internal network.
LITERATURE REVIEW
First you need to find out in which direction you need to look for literature. First of all, it is necessary to conduct research on how to involve employees in the activities of the company and what effects it gives. Find out which production metrics can be increased by increasing employee engagement. Find out how other companies solve the issue of engagement. Then it should be studied how it is customary to organize communication between the client and server parts of the system on the Internet, what difficulties companies encountered and how they solved them. After learning how to communicate on the network, you need to study the literature on the design of internal server storage and its normalization. Learn how to design servers with similar functionality and identify strengths and weaknesses of solutions.
Employee engagement research is a very broad topic, in recent years more and more research has been going on in this area. According to one study, more and more companies come to the conclusion that employee engagement brings positive results on production metrics. This study especially notes the possibility of gamification of processes, it implies gamification in a distributed way, allowing employees of different enterprises to exchange information and knowledge, join forces, maintain communication and collaborate with others to achieve common improvement goals. According to this study, the emotional involvement of employees increases the sense of responsibility for the product and, as a result, the quality of the product. The influence of involvement was carried out for Western cultures, so it is relevant in Russian conditions. Thus, increasing the involvement of employees, we can say that product quality metrics will be increased, which means that you can save on the amount of rejects and reduce the expertise department. Studies of involvement in the banking sector more likely illuminate the side of recruitment. The study claims that deeply involved employees change jobs less often, so they are more reliable. It is very important for the company not to lose qualified specialists. Thus, based on the materials studied, it was found out which metrics and how it is possible to influence by increasing the involvement of employees in the company.
According to articles, the basic principles of communication in distributed systems are the principles of REST. Thanks to the organization of the API according to REST principles using JSON to transfer data between elements of a distributed network, we get a man-readable communication format between parts of the system, which greatly simplifies debugging and testing of the system using such principles. The organization of the API on the principles of REST allows you to build easily horizontally scalable distributed computing systems. Such an organization of interaction will allow in the future, if necessary, to break the monolithic core into microservices with all the attendant advantages. In addition to the principles of REST, versioning of the server API is often used, it will allow one server to support several versions of client applications and adequately respond to requests. Given that the platform is being developed for mobile applications, and updating them is a very lengthy operation, versioning will help to avoid a number of problems. According to sources, mobile applications should be designed based on a frequent request for data from the server to maintain their relevance. Thus, it is necessary to build the server API in such a way that it can withstand high load and send data in batches, in small volumes. Often, server developers are faced with the problem of the performance of their solutions, according to the performance comparison of server programming languages, the most productive language on the Linux platform is Apple Swift, and the most productive solution in this language is VAPOR. The framework is written in pure Swift and fully supports all the advantages of this powerful programming language. Using such a powerful development tool will allow for high performance and low system memory consumption. In modern research on server development, the authors recommend using serious databases such as Postgree and Adobe, of course this is a good solution, the database should be designed for a large load and a large number of users. Also, taking into account the specifics of the plant's device, it is possible to deploy its own servers at each plant and there will be no need to design a single database for the entire holding. It is also necessary to consider the mechanisms of migration and database changes in the future. Since the server solution needs to be deployed on the customer's servers, the dockerization mechanism has been studied. It allows you to deploy the image of the server and the entire environment on the customer's servers in a matter of minutes. This will significantly reduce the burden on the customer's personnel and facilitate platform testing. Each system developer will be able to deploy a docker with a copy of the system and adapt the client application to it. According to the article, server developers often face load-bearing attacks; to solve such problems, developers use authentication mechanisms of users in the system. The most common mechanism is to use session keys to access data. This method allows you to secure the username and password from being intercepted, and gives the user convenient access with one key. The authors also recommend using cryptography to store passwords. The client application encrypts the password in a certain way and sends it in encrypted form to the server, the server again encrypts the password and saves it in the database. Thus, if at any stage the system is hacked, no one can get the user's password.
Thus, the study of literary sources gave an understanding of the further development of the system. Good development practices were identified, the subject area and the possible dangers of developing such a system were studied. This knowledge will allow you to begin the next stages of work.
METHODS
To analyze the subject area, customer interviewing will be applied, it will be carried out in several stages. Before each stage of the interview, the result of the previous round and the necessary literature will be analyzed, a list of questions on the subject area will be compiled, and possible options for developing the application will be prepared. As a result of this stage, it is necessary to draw up a formal technical task with a description of the application being developed, functional and non-functional requirements.
For designing the system architecture, the method of finding analogues will be applied. The strengths and weaknesses of the analogue systems will be analyzed in terms of energy efficiency, information loss and speed of these options and determine the type of architecture.
To select a server data warehouse, it is advisable to find possible options and conduct a swat analysis. The main criteria of which will be fault tolerance, data consistency requirements, migration capabilities, speed and memory footprint. As soon as the database is selected, it is necessary to begin designing the repository. When designing a database, you need to find out what data needs to be stored in the database on the server. This will be such data that is necessary for many users, or data important for security in the subject area, we will receive a complete list of these data as a result of interviewing the customer. Such a database will be a database with a first level of normalization. Perform several levels of normalization step by step until we reach the optimal value of the performance occupied by the database of memory size and readability. Such a storage scheme would be optimal.
Taking into account the designed data storage on the server, it is necessary to determine exactly what data and at what moment client applications may need. Thus, write a description of the server API application. Based on the compiled API, you need to start developing a client application. It is better to entrust the development of the client application interface to a professional and hire a designer. Then you need to design a clean architecture for the client application and determine which application modules and in which order you need to develop.
Analyze the libraries and platforms that are popular for the selected platforms, find out how they can speed up the development process, and make a list of software solutions used.
Based on the existing design, proceed with the development of the system; Firstly, it is advisable to start developing a server application. The first step in developing a server application will be the implementation of the database, then the level of business logic and services, after the implementation of the level of business logic, you can begin to develop an external API and navigation. After implementing the server part of the system, proceed with the development of the client application.
The client application should be developed in parts, this will reduce the coherence of the code and increase the speed of development. Firstly, it is advisable to develop a layer of work with business logic and user interface. To do this, you can use the substitution of data from the server using the proxy program. At the same time, you can write automated tests. Then we proceed to implement the interaction of the client application and the server.
It is recommended to test system components both individually and jointly.
Separate testing of the server side of the application implies the use of a separate application for HTTP requests. Insomnia is good for this purpose. Full white box testing required.
Testing the client part of the system should be divided into testing the user interface and business logic. It is enough to test the user interface using the black box method, while it makes sense to test the business logic using the white box method.
Then, integration testing of the client part of the system and the server application is carried out. Carry out stress testing and confirm the reliability of the system.
RESULT ANTICIPATE
As a result of the work, it is expected to get a platform that functions taking into account development restrictions and fulfills customer requirements, allowing client applications to carry out their work and interact with each other. The developed software product should support multiple access to its functions, should increase the consumed resources linearly in proportion to the clients served. Also, a developed product must have a modular structure and be able to support versioning of the API for future development.
As a result of the analysis of the subject area, a table of requirements and limitations to the system, a table of technical limitations, and a technical task for development will be compiled. At the design stage, a server database schema, a documented description of the platform API with user registration and authentication methods and a class diagram in UML notation will be developed. The result of the development phase will be a functioning application that meets the limitations of the system and the terms of reference, operating on the OS selected by the customer. At the testing stage, the stability of the platform will be improved, the identified errors will be described and fix, load testing will also be carried out and a correlation between the number of served users and consumed resources will be revealed.
CONCLUSION
As a result of the work, it is expected to get a convenient, expandable software platform that will allow colleagues to get together for events and receive funding for this. The holding's management will receive more involved employees, increase product quality indicators and earn more. Employees who are currently responsible for organizing events will receive more free time and will be able to issue awards for activity.
 
