INTRODUCTON
The topic of this research is Web-analytics Reporting Service Development. Each of the modern companies trying to lead new clients and support the loyalty of their customers should take into consideration a search engine optimization of their web-site. search engine optimization is a complex of activities to improve the company’s web-site positions in a keyword search result. This is aimed to attract a bigger volume of the traffic. In order to estimate the effectiveness of search engine optimization web-analytics services are used. They show the dynamic pattern of the different metrics such as visits, hits and visitors.
It is more sensible to delegate the company’s web-site search engine optimization to the professionals. There are a various organizations specialized in the Internet promotion. The goal of this research is to develop a tool for such companies which generates their client’s web-site analytics reports. This reports should be based on the templates prepared by the web-analyst. A big amount of hand work which can be automated is one of the most significant weaknesses of the Internet promotion companies. Particularly, they prepare the reports demonstrating the results of their work at the end the month. As they have about one hundred clients in average, a significant amount of person-hour is spent to do this task.
There are some assumptions of the research to be made. First of all, the service being developed will be used by the professionals in search engine optimization and web-analytics. These professionals used to prepare the web-analytics reports with the help of Yandex.Metrics and Google Analytics. It means that the service should provide the access to all metrics and other data about the web-sites from these tools.
To automate the reporting process based on Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics documentations an are needed to be studied. Also some theoretical base will be helpful to understand how to organize the interaction between the users and the service. Lawrence Maisel and Gary Cokins in suggest a method of Predictive Business Analytics and describe several fundamental concepts which are appropriate for the analytics in general. They discuss the way to organize the process of the Predictive Business Analytics in order to support the decision-making. The most essential for this research finding of the article is the predictive business-analytics model. The principles of it can be used in the model for web-analytics.
Sometimes it can be not enough to analyze only the metrics. Joel J?rvinen and Heikki Karjaluoto suggest in to take into account three dimensions for the performance measurement. The first is the Performance measurement content or the actual metrics system. The second is the Performance measurement process which describes how the data are handled. The third is the Performance measurement context containing the rules the metrics system usage in the specific cases. This approach can be redefined for the needs of the web-analytics reporting. The main benefit from its usage is a clear structure.
JaeSung Park, JaeJon Kim and Joon Koh educe the dependence between the web-analytics services user satisfaction and such factors as the information quality, the system quality, the responsibility and the empathy. They explore that the satisfaction depends on the information quality. This information can be used for the promotion of the service being developed.
The result of this research is a service to prepare the web-analytics reports. Its implementation gives an opportunity to increase the work performance and the reports quality and to reduce the labor contribution.
PROBLEM STATEMENT
A fully implemented service consists of five main components. The interaction begins with the data processing request by the user. The thin client sends it to the web-server in order to get an appropriate view. The web-server asks the application server for the processed, ready for the view data. It sends the request for the data needed processing to the database server or Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics. The database service generates the request for the database and gets the data. After that the database server sends it to the application server for the processing, and it preparers the data for the web-server which generates the view for the user and shows it through the thin client. The user can also export the data demonstrated by the thin client in the docx format.
However, now the process of the web-analytics report preparing is not automated. Employees of the Internet promotion companies copy metrics, diagrams and other data about the site from Yndex.Metrics and Google Analytics and paste them in the report. Also they calculate some values based on the metrics. This process is time-consumed. Moreover, some employees, especially interns, can make the mistakes due to inattention or inexperience. Cases of this nature may lead to the conflicts with the clients and material losses.
The service being developed should organize the process like this. A web-analyst registers in the service and attaches the Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics accounts with the needed sites. After that the report templates are needed to be prepared. To do this the analyst should use a constructor which allows to mark the structure of the report, write the subtitles, place the metrics from the web-analytics services, tailor the calculable values and write the explanations. Completed template can be modified if it is needed. After these preparation actions the report generating consists of four simple steps: choosing a web-site, choosing a report template, changing the time period in case it is required end exporting the report or analyzing it via the web-interface.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS
The aim of the research is to develop the web-analytics reporting service in order to save time required for the reports preparation. To achieve success several tasks are needed to be performed. The first is to study the topical area using the books about search engine optimization and web-analytics. Secondly, the analogues should be analyzed (Google Analytics, Yandex.Metrics and Carrot Quest are considered as the analogues). The third task is to explore the requirements and to design the service with the help of the Unified Modeling Language notation described in. After that the software implementation must be realized. The last stage considers the stabilization of the service.
METHODS
There are two basic development models: the waterfall model and the spiral model. The former considers the implementing each of the development stages one by one. The end of the stages is called the milestone. This is the point there all tasks must be completed. It is effective to use this model in projects with predefined requirements. The process of work in this case is well-organized but inflexible. The latter suggests to correct and elaborate the requirements during the development process by communicating with the customer. It allows to develop the corresponding to the current terms product. This model is flexible enough but can be difficult to manage. The Microsoft Solution Framework process model allows to develop the product iteratively and each iteration is divided by the stages with the milestone on the end. As it is well-structured and flexible, it was chosen to be used as the base for this project. The general rules of Microsoft Solution Framework are outlined in.
In order to develop the service allowing to improve the efficiency of the work various methods of collaboration with the users can be applied. In this research two of them are exist: the interview and the observation. For understanding the user requirements one of the target audience representatives — the employees of the Internet promotion companies —  was asked several questions. For example, it was discovered which web-analytics services are used, how often reports generating is needed, how many web-sites serves the company, what is the aim of these reports and who examines them. For the purpose of understanding the way of the reports preparation without automation the method of observation was applied. Moreover, the examples of the reports were studied in order to understand what kinds of the data are needed to be displayed.
The results of the interview and the observation provided the basis for the use cases. Developing them helps to educe and determine all the situations of the user and the service interaction. After that the functional requirements can be prepared. To design the behavior of the system three types of the diagrams are used. To understand the context of the use cases initiation the activity diagrams should be built. For the system messages and operations determination the consequences and collaboration diagrams are very helpful. In order to develop the most user-friendly interface the methods of prototyping and usability-testing are used. 
The first result of the analysis is the class diagram where the properties and the methods of all the classes and the relations are described. The most successful version of the prototype, which corresponds with the users’ needs serves as the basis for the service appearance and behavior. For more detailed descriptions the specification is used. All these elements are significant for the service development.
PREDICTED RESULTS
The expected result of the research is the service for the web-analytics reporting. It should execute this by the connection with the web-analytics services Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrcs via their application programming interfaces. It is planned to develop several functions: the registration, the enter, the Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics accounts attachment, the report template formation and editing, the report generating by applying the template, the report exporting into docx extension. The report can contain the metrics for the different time periods, the lists, the text paragraphs, the tables, the diagrams and the calculable values. The service must be displayed correctly in Google Chrome, Safari, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer (from 9 version). The operational condition of the service should be supported 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and its up time should not be less than 99.9%. The service must be able to sustain 1000 of the users operating at the same time. The data about the users and their web-analytics services accounts should be protected from the illegal access.
The deployment of this solution will lead to the considerable benefits. At the average each of the Internet promotion companies have about 70 clients. It means that they prepare about 70 reports at the end of the each month. As one report needs about one and a half human-hours to be prepared, 35 human-hours are spent monthly to support all the clients with the reports. Web-analytics reporting service allows to save this time and to reduce to zero the mistakes probability.
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE STUDY
As it was said before, the Internet promotion companies usually use Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics as the tools of the search engine optimization results monitoring. It means that the service being developed must cooperate with them, other services cannot be chosen. Also the application programming interfaces of these web-analytics services should be studied. Another limitation comes out of the uniqueness of the each web-site to be optimized and promoted. This fact leads to the senselessness to develop some report templates on default, users prepares them only by themselves.
The research is not aimed to develop a new web-analytics service which is able to examine the sites. The result should be only a tool cooperating with such services. Moreover, it is not planned to generate some guidelines for search engine optimization and the Internet promotion because performing this task needs taking into account various factors like the condition of the market, seasonality and search engines algorithms. This is the task for the team of the several specialists.
CONCLUSION
In this paper the questions of web-analytics reporting service development were considered. It was planned as a tool for the professionals from the Internet promotion companies to monitor the outcome from the search engine optimization. Also the reports are needed to present to the clients the work results. It has been mentioned that Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics are generally used for the reporting.
At the first stage of the development the requirements have been explored. It has been done with the help of the interview and observation methods. After that the Unified Modeling Language notation and prototyping have been used to formulate the functional requirements, design the service and its behavior. The final design stage results — the class diagram, the specification and the prototype — have been used as the foundation for the implementation stage.
The main result of the work is the service deployment. It was counted that this tool is able to save about 35 human-hours monthly. The reports quality improvement is an another significant impact of it.
It was discussed that this research has the limitations. First of all, Google Analytics and Yandex.Metrics are the most widely-used web-analytics services, so it is needed to cooperate with them. Secondly, no possibilities to develop the report templates by default have been found because all situations of the Internet promotion are unique. Moreover, the research scopes were identified. It has not been planned to develop the tools for analyzing the sites or suggest some solutions for the specific situations.
There are some ways to continue the research. The report templates designing methodology will be significant. It can be developed and integrated into the service as a guideline or support. Also interaction with other web-analytics services can be implemented to expand the user audience.     
         
