    
Introduction
In the social networks there is a large amount of information1 that must be provided to the social media analytics in a form convenient for them. It is necessary to build some algorithms that would help to display the results from all of the volume that is in the public domain by certain criteria set by the analytics. It is the general project that segmented into several people. This work is about the part of the project is to create algorithm that would be the connecting part between criteria setting by social media analytics and displaying the result.
Background.  At present, research is being conducted to develop tools for the analysis of data obtained from the Internet, based on data received from news feeds. Communication in social networks can be considered as a short message exchange, in which case the information can be well analyzed. A potential area of research is the analysis of social media user categories and information about what they publish. In this work, social networks are considered only from the point of view of interpretation of information previously received and analyzed.
Delimitations of the Study. The object of research is a system of information analysis in social networks. The subjects of research are tools of visual models interpretation developed with the use of the basic language, which include the call of services, their interaction and the way of interaction.
Problem Statement. The work goal is to research and to design tools for data interpretation, as well as methods to implement this and develop the application for visual model interpreting at social media research.
The goal can be achieved by solving the following tasks:
1. To analyze the subject area that includes visual representation models and tools of their interpretation.
2. To realize designing of visual models interpretation system for social networks.
3. To develop an information system using modern development environments that support teamwork, project control and system versions control (Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Foundation Server).
As a result of the work should become the developed visual model interpretation system. Visual models are not generated as part of the work, but are used ready-made, stored in a database. There is enough information on a subject area, analogues for consideration of possibilities of the future system both in English and in Russian.
Professional Significance. The practical importance of the work consists in combining the system of visual model interpretation with other solutions of the general project of data analysis system implementation for social networks research and possible subsequent use of the project for user requests.
Literature Review
Social networks became very popular some time ago and their popularity continues to grow. People began to spend more time in social media and as a result, it became possible to buy goods online. In order to choose the vector of market development it is necessary to study the needs of users and what exactly they are interested in. This becomes possible with the help of data analysis systems. 
The articles are reviewed in order to obtain information on the tools used that can help in the implementation of my project. The articles solve the tasks of data management, creating a basic language, implementing systems for data analysis. The tasks under discussion are connected with each other by a sequential presentation, according to the stages of work.
An integral part of any system is the data that is used to operate it. It is critical that the input data received from the user is qualitative and well analyzed and interpreted. If this condition is not met and the primary data from the user is inaccurate and flawed, the result at the end of the program will be inaccurate and unlikely to be useful. The article described below presents the results of what data management is and why it is necessary for program operation.
The article considers the solution of data quality management in information systems. The approach provided in the article provides the use of domain-specific language (DSL). Data quality is controlled in accordance with the data quality model. The article describes the input data, data analysis procedures, and the result implemented with the help of DSL interpreter. The main purpose of the article is data quality management. It is considered as a dynamic process. The data set is gradually supplemented; the data quality is constantly growing. The article will be useful for my work, as the quality of the received data is important for further interpretation and providing the result to the user.
the article offers a model execution environment based on the basic unified modeling language. This environment allows effectively test and debug the created UML-models. The quality of executable models is an important attribute of the system being created. It is necessary, that the output data were qualitative. Like the system considered in this article is responsible for data quality. All this will be useful for the system being implemented because the quality of data comes first when any system works.
Creating any information system is a complex and laborious process. To create a dynamic information system in addition to the language of development requires the same subject oriented or basic language, with which it is possible to describe the subject area for subsequent interpretation of data and the provision of results. The following article describes such a basic language, its purpose and use if necessary.
describes the purpose of the domain specific WebDSL language. It is used to implement dynamic web applications with rich data model. The architecture of the language follows the approach of code generation by model conversion. This approach is necessary to provide modular and extensible architecture of the project because of the inevitably increasing complexity in its development. This article will be useful for my work, as creating a reliable base language is an integral part of working with data analysis, data mining and subsequent interpretation and output.
During performance of the given work the dynamic information system is projected and developed. This means that metamodelling, domain specific language and system description models will be used. It is necessary to understand how it should work and what to know at an initial stage of work on planning of system realization. In the article considered below a system based on the principles of metamodelling is presented, which will help me well to implement my system.
The article describes a model-based approach to developing a language work environment based on metamodelling and subject-based languages. The considered MetaLanguage system allows you to describe dsl's, create models using them, and perform conversions of created models into other text and graphic notation. All of the above is necessary for the system implemented in my work, because the system being created will convert data and models into other views, new notations.
Combining the implemented system and the base language used is an important part of my work. After getting information about creating a subject oriented language and getting information about implementing a dynamic system, it is necessary to understand what the basic language does in a meta-level system and how to combine them for optimal collaboration in order to output the result. The following articles will help you understand the principles of a system that uses a subject-based language to solve user-defined tasks.
describes a specially developed system for working with the subject oriented interpreted language ViSlang. It simplifies the creation of new subject-oriented languages that are necessary for researchers to implement special new tasks. ViSlang is adapted for beginners in programming and people who are not related to it at all. It allows a wider audience to benefit from the necessary calculations. The language of this system is something in between low-level programming and high-level programming, allowing computation using abstractions and algorithms. For my work, this article will be useful because of the ability to correctly organize a system that uses domain-specific language as the main means of work. Also, the system's capabilities, such as the use of abstractions and algorithms, will be important for users to work with data analysis.
The article describes an approach to the implementation of an application that is subject oriented. Application development was based on the experience of similar systems with different set of functional requirements. The application from the article is a modified and improved version of existing solutions for solving the task of modeling user interactions. Like any object-oriented application, this one is implemented with the help of model-oriented approach and the basic language, which is EngenDSL here. Based on this article, it is possible to obtain an example of a subject-centric system implemented using a model-centric approach using the base language. The experience, received at reading of article, will be useful for my work, I will receive the information on a principle of work of the model-oriented system and will receive representation in what way this system has been realized, that it will be possible to take as a basis of visual model interpretation system for research of social media.
Information interpretation received from the user is a key part of the work. You need to get the analyzed data in a form that is easy to store in a database and then start the process of interpretation. The methods and possibilities of interpretation and subsequent visualization are described in the next article, which will be analyzed in order to study how the data can be provided to the user so that it is relevant and useful.
the article explores how to extract the necessary information and visualize it correctly for the user. By means of interconnection schemes, the system described in this paper builds the necessary model of what should be visible to the user. As for my work, in M. Schuhmacher paper is identifies data from the user, sorts it out in the right order and interprets it according to the right rule. In this way, the user receives the necessary information, which is also up to date and relevant to him.
After studying the offered literature it is possible to draw a conclusion that the means described above, do not approach for the decision of a concrete problem of visual model interpretation. The solution of the task set in the project is a new goal, which will need to be achieved by using the methods described below, as well as to create my own approaches and algorithms that will create a system of visual model interpretation for research social media.
Methods
Firstly, I need to analyze the subject area and make theoretical conclusions about the possibility of project implementation. Theoretical analysis consists in studying similar interpretation systems of visual model that obtained from the analysis of social networks. It will also be necessary to carry out linguistic analysis, which will include studying the literature on the chosen topic. Literature selection is conditioned by the knowledge obtained as a result of searching for any information on a given topic; communication with a professional (scientific supervisor) of the topic; and sources closest to the topic of work. Also I need to talk to people interested in the project to identify the requirements for the system.
The next stage is the design of the visual model interpretation system. To start the design process, primary data will be analyzed and system requirements will be specified, and the possibility of using similar information solutions will be assessed. During this stage I need to form the basis on which I will be guided in implementing system. The basis refers to the status, timing, risks, opportunities, options for using of the future system.
At the third stage the system is developed and tested, a test database and tests of the system are created based on the results of the previous stage. After that the system of visual model interpretation is developed for social networks research. Then the database is tested and the created system is initially tested. The system interfaces are debugged and the necessary functionality is finalized, the database and application are optimized. The main result of the stage and all the work will be a system of visual models interpretation for social media research created and debugged on the tests.
Based on the methods of project implementation described above, the key events are communication with the professional of the research topic; detailed design based on the results of the analysis stage; implementation and testing of the visual model interpretation system. If the abovementioned stages are followed, the project implementation will be possible and on time.
Results Anticipated
To achieve the main goal of the project, it is necessary to analyze the subject area. The result of this stage will be a completed project chapter of the analysis, including a literature review, a review of analogues, and formed requirements for the system. A research core will also be defined for the implementation of the visual model interpreter for social media research project.
The next stage is to design a system of visual model interpretation. The architecture of the system, the terms of reference, the business plan, and the economic rationale for developing the system will be the results of this stage. Also no less important results will be formed plans for testing the system and a sketch design of the system based on the diagrams created.
The last stage will be development and testing of the system for visual model interpretation. The results will be a database and tests, and eventually the implemented system. After that the program interfaces and necessary functionality must be finalized, the database and the system of visual model interpretation must be optimized for social networks research. At the end, a user manual and a programmer's manual, as well as the system's operational documentation are formed.
Conclusion
The key points of my work are comparable with my aim, objectives and methods. The visual model interpretation system resulting from the project will be part of a system by which users will be able to analyze social networks and obtain the parameters of interest for the evolution of this social network. The significance of this project for developers consists in exploring the possibility of interpreting data, developing research skills and consistent implementation of the project in accordance with the established plan.
