Introduction
Background. Today not only the term "Smart House", but also the term "Smart City" is becoming more and more well-known and widespread. The latter represents "the concept of a city of a new generation that uses innovative technologies to manage effectively and to ensure a high standard of living". Unlike the usual Internet, which connects people around the world, IoT interacts with all kinds of intelligent sensors and other similar devices, most often even without human intervention. This way of device interaction opens up completely new ways of managing and monitoring remotely performed operations to people, because it allows to fully control distantly located objects and to deliver relevant information to applications and data warehouses constantly.
The number of areas in which the concept of Internet of Things is used is increasing every year, as well as the number of users of computer networks. All these changes stimulate the growth of a complexity of all the network structures and an interaction between them. Correspondingly, the task of routing becomes more and more complicated, especially the search of optimal ways in the network for quick delivery of requests from its users. Due to this growing complexity the task of routing is most often not fully solved, especially in large-scale networks, where the load is uncertain and unstable. Therefore, there is a need in investigating the existing routing algorithms in order to compare and to improve their characteristics with the help of agent-based modeling.
Problem Statement. Thus, the goal of this paper is agent-based modeling of knowledge-based routing algorithms using the NetLogo tool. To achieve this goal, it is important to cover the following 3 tasks: to study the existing knowledge-based algorithms for routing data in IoT, to design simulation models of several of these algorithms and to perform a comparative analysis of the results obtained during the agent based modeling.
Delimitations of the Study. This paper, firstly, will set the aim of routing in the IoT, as well as will describe the process of studying the knowledge-based routing algorithms used in the Internet of things. Secondly, the agent-based modeling method and its practical application for algorithm analysis will be studied. Thirdly, an overview of available simulation tools will be presented and the choice of NetLogo tool will be justified. In addition, the selected several knowledge-based routing algorithms and their characteristics will be described through agent-based modeling and comparative analysis of the results obtained.
Literature Review
There are a huge number of definitions of a modern widespread term - Internet of Things which is commonly called IoT. According to, Internet of Things is an "ecosystem of connected physical objects that are accessible through the internet". The 'thing' in IoT is an object that have an IP address and the ability to collect and transfer data over a network without manual assistance or human intervention. For example, it could be a microwave oven in the apartment, a heart monitor of a sick person or a street lamp. A distinctive feature of such devices is that they can interact with each other and with the environment. It is possible due to the embedded technology inside them.
The application of IoT has achieved significant success in a variety of ?elds. For example, it is widely used in a car industry, because a vehicle that is connected to the IoT makes it possible to collect and use data both inside and outside one. Moreover, IoT is applied to energy, so that a huge number of power system devices can exchange information in real time in order to more efficiently distribute energy and manage its consumption. Authors at also claim that the Internet of Things is changing the healthcare industry with the advent of various solutions: from medical wearable devices to tablets for quick response and comprehensive surgical equipment. According to, IoT technologies can also improve the efficiency of modern manufacturing enterprises, optimize production and increase safety for workers. Furthermore, for the retail industry, "the Internet of Things offers unlimited opportunities to increase the efficiency of the supply chain, to develop new services and to create new ones".
However, despite all the advantages, Internet of Things faces a plenty of challenges: intermittent connectivity, limited resources such as energy and band width, especially between heterogeneous units of equipment and, of course, data routing. Moreover, the more IoT devices are connected wirelessly, the more the need for higher capacity wireless networks is. Thus, DSA which stands for dynamic spectrum access have been proposed as a cost-effective and high-throughput solution for these growing demand.
Furthermore, in articles the authors suggest other solutions to meet these needs by some advanced algorithms and methods. Thus, there is a variety of routing algorithms that were designed for solving the problem of data routing, which is the object of this paper.
As for the routing itself, each device in the Internet of Things is considered as a route, while the routing algorithm is used for data exchange and transmission between these routes. The authors in claim that the main purpose of the routing algorithm is to transfer data as quickly as possible from the starting node to the target node. Besides, authors say that selection of the best channel among all the available between a given pair of IoT devices is extremely crucial. Simultaneously, says that another task of every routing algorithm for IoT is to find the best available channels at each hop along the route, and, eventually, the optimal transmission power for each of these hops. To summarize, if the network is congested, the routing algorithm should quickly configure the strategy to increase transmission efficiency. Thereby, information exchange and communication in IoT require new intelligent routing algorithms. 
proves that this is especially true for communications, in which network coverage area is larger than transmission range of single nodes. This type of communication is called multi-hop routing. Such multi-hop Device-to-Device (D2D) IoT communications meet a bit more challenges. Firstly, they should provide power-controlled IoT communications to maintain stringent energy-saving requirements for IoT devices. Secondly, multi-hop communications demand an awareness of the space-time spectrum in terms of detecting unused or underused channels in different hops along the end-to-end path. Finally, secondary IoT channels in such communications cause the problem of protecting licensed primary transmission on channels.
In another paper SpEED-IoT algorithm is proposed and it name stands for: Spectrum aware Energy-Efficient multi-hop multi-channel routing scheme for D2D communication in IoT network. Authors mention that the main feature of this algorithm is that it uses available information from a recently built spectrum map to find the best possible routes for median hops. What is more, this algorithm identifies what is the best channel to use at each hop and due to the spectrum map the sensors are able to calculate the optimal power for each device. Simultaneously, these sensors also protect the primary agents and other current IoT connections in the immediate vicinity.
Thus, the advantages of the proposed SpEED-IoT are: IoT device energy preservation, fast convergence, effective end-to-end data rate optimization and fair route assignment among interfering D2D communications. However, despite this number of advantages, detailed analysis of the results in reveals that under different network connectivity conditions, SpEED-IoT is likely to be wrong with bandwidth of decentralized networks which can lead to tenfold results error. Due to the complexity of modern structural computer networks, the routing problem cannot be fully resolved by SpEED-IoT.
Therefore, the problem of decentralized networks, which cannot be settle by SpEED-IoT is recently solved by one of the disciplines of artificial intelligence - Swarm intelligence (SI) in. SI is a developing multi-agent intelligent systems that is based on a collective behavior of social animals or insects. The authors of this article claim that a colony of social insects can be easily compared to a decentralized system consisting of autonomous units that are distributed in an environment that follows a response behavior - a simple probabilistic instinct. The rules that govern the interaction between insects are carried out on the basis of local information without the need to know global patterns, which allows us to abstract from external conditions. Thus, social animals and insects can solve a number of problems and respond to external challenges in a very flexible and reliable way due to the simple interaction between each other.
Summing up, this review shows what the problem of routing is and how it is crucial for the maximum efficiency of the Internet of things. And despite the fact that today there are a huge number of proposed solutions to this problem, we can conclude that algorithms based on the behavior of various animals and insects that do not have leaders are the best solution for the routing problem in decentralized networks that are used on the Internet of things. Therefore, it is this type of routing algorithms that will be described and studied in this paper using agent modeling.
Methods
To perform the first task, it is necessary to analyze the already existing article, which examines and compares with each other more than 20 different routing algorithms, of which we have to choose the three most effective in the opinion of the author. Then, since the main task is to compare and model the routing algorithms, it is necessary determine their essence. According to, the routing algorithms should perform the following functions:
1. to collect, organize and distribute information about the traffic created by the user and network conditions;
2. to use the collected information to create suitable routes that maximize the performance of objects;
3. to route user traffic along the selected path.
Thus, offers the following criteria for comparing routing algorithms: Number of Nodes in the Network, Node Location Type, Communication Range, Packet Lifetime, Source Node Index and Packet Recipient Node Index. All these criteria will help to compare the algorithms with each other according to the listed tasks.
To analyze the routing algorithms and compare them with each other, many authors have previously used agent-based modeling, for example at. This is justified by the fact that the Agent-Oriented Programming Paradigm (APS) proposed by Shoham Y. in 1990, unlike the OOP, where a program is understood as a set of interacting object-modules, specifies this framework by recording agent activity and changes in their states. The fact that every agent has the mechanism of target formation provides a fundamentally new level of its autonomy [8]. The agent's functioning is influenced by environmental conditions, goals and intentions of other agents, what is necessary for routing algorithms.
To solve the task of investigating the selected algorithms, the NetLogo simulation modeling tool was chosen because:
- it has a user-friendly interface,
- it is free and available to everyone,
- it is easy to find examples of complete models to understand how they work as well as a book on how to use them,
- it supports the agent based modeling paradigm which is well suited for routing algorithm models, as each network node can be represented as a separate agent interacting with others,
- it provides great opportunities for process visualization.
Before modeling algorithms with the help of this tool it is necessary to make up their models in a special NetLogo language. This will be done with the help of the examples in the tutorial book on this tool, as was already mentioned earlier.
Anticipated Results 
The results of the literature research on knowledge-based routing algorithms will be a list of existing and widely used algorithms. This list should be supported by a comparative table of these algorithms that have already been investigated and modelled by someone. Moreover, the analysis of these results is going to be presented as charts, scales or graphs. The code of several selected routing algorithms in a special programming language for the NetLogo simulation system of the same name will be presented in the appendixes.
After the process of agent-based modeling at NetLogo different algorithms are going to demonstrate different results for different indicators (for example, high or low load, time to set and maximum). These NetLogo results of algorithm comparison, which also will be presented by graphs and tables, can help to determine the best of the selected algorithms or to find the method of the routing efficiency improvement by changing their individual indicators or the network topology.
Conclusion
Summing up, this review shows what the problem of routing is and how it is crucial for the maximum efficiency of the Internet of things. And despite the fact that today there are a huge number of proposed solutions to this problem, we can conclude that algorithms based on the behavior of various animals and insects that do not have leaders are the best solution for the routing problem in decentralized networks that are used on the Internet of things. Therefore, it is this type of routing algorithms that will be described and studied in this paper using agent modeling.
The results are going to be of practical value if chosen algorithms will be used as the way of communication between the objects in the Internet of Things, because the task of routing becomes more and more complicated, especially the search of optimal ways in the network for quick delivery of requests from its users. In addition, there will be a scientific value of this research, because algorithms that were not previously widely considered and studied will be investigated and modelled, which may be a good basis for their further, more detailed study, for example, in other forms of modelling. Educational value consists in acquiring skills of simulating algorithms, comparing and analyzing the results, studying the relevant scientific literature, writing the detailed description of all these processes and public speaking.
